---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Engage Phase

This Phase is skipped during the first player's first turn of the game.
## Engaging

Engaging is the primary way to enable your units to get into melee with enemies. Engaging happen immediately after the Upkeep phase. All units can make one attempt to Engage during this phase, unless they are:

* Stunned
* Dazed
* Already Engaged with an enemy unit that is not Stunned or Dazed

Engaging usually follows all the same rules as when Running, with the objective of getting into base-to-base contact with the enemy to start melee combat.

If a unit is only Engaged with Stunned and Dazed enemy units, they may voluntarily leave the Melee to try to Engage with another enemy instead.

### Moving through allies
This includes the normal rules of when you can move through allies. The one thing to note is that, if moving through an ally would be the shortest path for the chosen method of Engaging (described below), you must move through that ally.

### Impact on other phases
If a unit attempts to Engage, it cannot Move or Shoot, but may still Cast Spells. This is regardless of whether the Engage is a success or failure. It will also be able to attack during the upcoming Melee Phase, assuming that it successfully Engages. In addition, if it successfully Engages, the unit will be able to Strike First in the first turn of melee (ie. the Melee Phase of the turn they Engaged).

### Measuring
As an Engage attempt is declared before measuring, there is the risk that your unit may fail an Engage, moving itself only part of the way to the target and leaving themself vulnerable to being shot or Engaged by the enemy on their following turn.

### An Engage is resolved as follows:
1. Declare which of your units is attempting to Engage, and which model is the target
2.  Declare what Agility Checks the unit will be making as part of the Engage
3.  Determine the distance your unit is able to move during the Engage
	1. If your unit can see the target, the distance is equal to the unit's Run speed (ie. 1.5x the base Move of the unit)
	2. If your unit cannot see the target, the distance is determined by an [Out-of-Sight Roll](#out-of-sight-rolls)
4. Measure the distance between the unit and the target based on usual Move rules, using the Agility Checks declared in Step 2
5. If the distance determined in Step 3 means the unit can reach the target, declare the exact path that the unit will take to reach its target using the distance from step 3
6. The other player can now decide if they want to Intercept the Engage with one of their units
	1. If an enemy's unit could move 2" in a straight line so that they could, at least partially, block the path of the Engage, they are able to Intercept. If they do so, move them to this position and move the Engaging unit in base contact with the Interceptor
	2. If no one Intercepts the unit, the Engage succeeds! Move them in base-to-base contact with the target at a point that makes sense given the path of the Engage
7. If the distance in Step 3 is not enough, the Engage fails. Move the unit toward the target via the chosen path, but only as far as the unit's base Move attribute (or only half of the unit's base Move attribute if a 1-5 was rolled on an [Out-of-Sight Roll](#out-of-sight-rolls)).


<!--
JP 14-03-25: I wish Step 5.1 was a little cleaner. There's that whole 'perpendicular to the charge' rule in Mordheim, so that you don't have the situation where two units are standing next to each other and one walks in front to protect the other. Would it break things if this was allowed? I've reworded the rule to be '2" in a straight line' only.

Also, is it possible to have the sub-steps be letters instead? It would help with clarity on which step is getting referred to.

Also, general thoughts on the structure above? This is the way I prefer to have rules described (in an ordered set of steps) as it makes it very easy to reference, but I realise that may not be the case for others. I'm trying to also be very precise with language so that there's no ambiguity, but that sacrifices readability a bit.


CP 07-03-25: I like how it's broken down into steps but the way to solve the readability would be to add some diagrams here.
-->
## Out-of-Sight Rolls

When attempting to Engage a unit that your unit does not have Line-of-Sight of, roll on this table. On a roll of 16-20, the Engage distance is as normal (1.5x base Move of the unit). On any other roll, it is reduced as described.
If, as a result, you fail the Engage you must move towards the target the distance specified in the 'Failed Engage Move' column.

| d20   | Engage Distance            | Failed Engage Move           |
|-------|----------------------------|------------------------------|
| 1-5   | 0.5x base Move of the unit | 0.5x base Move of the unit   |
| 6-15  | 1x base Move of the unit   | 1x base Move of the unit     |
| 16-20 | 1.5x base Move of the unit | **1x base Move of the unit** |

## Engaging multiple enemies

If it is possible to Engage in such a way that you are in base contact with multiple enemies, you may do so. Declare the multiple targets when starting to resolve the Engage, as usual. Choose the shortest path that allows you to reach this position.

If it is unclear whether one unit can Engage multiple targets (due to spacing of the targets or whether there is a large enough gap for the Engager to move through, it is encouraged to allow the Engaged to happen.

## Jump Attack
A unit may perform a Jump Attack under all of the following conditions:
- As part of your Engage you make a successful Jump Down check
- Where you land after your Jump Down check directly engaged with a unit

If you successfully perform a Jump Attack you roll your attacks with Advantage for the current turn.

## Making Room for Engaging

If a unit is on the edge of a ledge or top of a ladder you may still Engage them. If there is not enough room for your unit to be placed next to the unit Engaged then shuffle it back to make room.

## Fear

Whenever you first Engage or are Engaged by a unit that causes Fear and your unit does not also cause Fear, you must make a Morale check. On a failure, the unit is Staggered for the remainder of the turn.

If a unit with Fear Intercepts an enemy unit that is trying to Engage another unit, that enemy unit must make a Fear Check as if it was trying to Engage the unit with Fear.

If both units cause Fear, this negates Fear's effect and neither must make any Morale Checks.
