---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# Move Phase

Any unit may Move a number of inches according to their movement characteristic within the Movement phase, unless they:

* Attempted to Engage this turn
* Are Stunned
* Are Dazed
* Are Engaged with an enemy unit that is not Stunned or Dazed

As part of the Move, they may do the following:

- If possible, a unit may instead [Run](#running) to move further
- A unit may also [Climb](#climbing), [Jump](#jumping-across), or [Jump Down](#jumping-down) as part of their Move or Run
- When Moving through any terrain that is up to 1" high may be freely moved over with no penalty
- If a unit is only Engaged with Stunned and Dazed enemy units, they may voluntarily leave the Melee and Move away

### Moving Through Other Units

Your unit is able to Move or Engage through allies, assuming those allies they are not:
* Engaged
* Stunned
* Dazed

They may not end their Move in the same position as another ally, even if that unit is still able to Move.

You may not Move or Engage through enemies, regardless of their state.

## Running

Units that can Move may instead Run, unless that unit is within 8" of an enemy or carrying a Treasure token. When Running, a unit may move 1.5x their normal Move (eg. if a unit has 6" Move they may run 9"). A unit that Runs follows all of the same rules as for a regular Move.

If a unit Runs, it may not Shoot in the same turn. If it can Cast spells, it will do so with a penalty.


## Climbing
To climb up or down a vertical surface as part of your movement make an Agility Check. If you succeed the unit can move vertically up or down the surface as part of their Move. The vertical movement counts towards the distance the unit can Move in their turn. If the Check is failed then put the unit next to the vertical surface where they started their climbed and end their Move.

- When climbing up or down, a failure does not result in a Fall
- A unit cannot attempt to climb if it cannot reach the position it is climbing to in this turn
- A unit must end its movement in a place where it can be placed, it cannot be halfway up a wall

Some leeway should be given if the unit needs to move horizontally as part of the climb up or down, such as to go around a window or to get to the target ledge. 1" of horizontal movement is allowed, but more is also okay if it's in the spirit of the climb movement and everyone agrees.

<!--
JP 17-03-25: I noticed you changed that if you climb down and fail, it doesn't count as a fall. This isn't how it works in mordies (you do fall, but climbing down from a high place means you only make a single Agi check). I reverted it to Mordies rules for now, but can discuss it, in case it was an intentional change.

JP 23-03-25: As discussed, any failure will not result in falling, but the climb (up or down) will no longer work.

CP 07-03-25: Should we allow or disallow wall running? I'm not sure this ever comes up really so we could ignore it.
-->

## Falling
When falling, place the unit at the spot it has fallen to. If this spot would place it on top of another unit, instead place it so that it is next to (but not Engaged) with the unit. Determine a random direction if the place it would drop to is ambiguous.

Make an Injury Roll. For every extra full inch above 2” that the unit falls from, add +2 to the Injury Roll.

Units that fall do not actually lose a Wound (which is only relevant for multi-wound units). If they would be Incapacitated when they have more than 1 Wound remaining, they are instead Stunned and lose a Wound.

## Jumping Down
Instead of Climbing a unit may Jump Down from a higher point for no vertical movement cost. To Jump Down, place the unit on the ground within 3" of where it is Jumping Down from. This allows units to Jump over other units or terrain, assuming they are not higher than the unit that is Jumping Down.

Now an Agility Check must be made to see whether the unit safely landed. If the distance being jumped is 4" or more vertically, the unit makes the Agility Check with Disadvantage. On a success, it lands and may continue Moving as normal. If it fails if Falls, stopping where it landed. Resolve Falling as normal.

## Jumping Across
No Jump Across check needs to be made to jump distances 1" or less. For gaps larger than 1", such as between two buildings, a Check must be made.

To Jump Across, first declare where the unit is Jumping Across from and to without measuring. Now measure the distance. If the distance between the start and end position is longer than 3", or the end position is more than 1" above the start position, the unit automatically fails the Jump Across and Falls to the ground below from where it attempted to Jump Across.

If the unit does not automatically fail, it instead makes an Agility Check. If the unit passes, it Jumps successfully and may continue moving if it has any movement left. If the unit fails, it Falls to the ground below from where it attempted to Jump Across.

<!--
JP 17-03-25: This is similarly different. It only requires one check in your rules vs multiple in mordies (1 for every 2 full inches). I am potentially okay to go this route, but I think injury needs to become even more severe. Alternatively, we can roll it into one rule but have a negative modifier to Agi rolls instead.

Am I losing my mind and maybe we have discussed this previously? I couldn't see it on the change log though.

JP 23-03-25: Jump down needs to be reworded. May be an Agi check with disadvantage, plus can now land up to 3" away (paying the horizontal movement cost). This means they can jump over other enemies.
-->

## Ladders
Ladders are treated like normal terrain for most units, you may Run and Engage up or down ladders without making a Climb Check. Any vertical movement gained from using a ladder counts towards the unit's total movement.
- Animals may not freely use ladders (but may make a Climb Check to climb them)
- A unit may not end its movement halfway up a ladder

## Difficult Terrain
If a unit moves through difficult terrain at any point during their turn, their total speed is reduced by 2".  The amount of difficult terrain moved through does not matter. This is applied after all other modifiers, such as Running or Engaging. So a unit that has a base Move of 6" could normally move 4" through difficult terrain during their turn, or 7" Running (9" normally, minus 2" penalty).

<!--
JP 17-03-25: Difficult terrain?
JP 23-03-25: Added a new rule to test

JP 23-03-25: For Climb Down, the only downside to failure is that you don't climb down and movement ends (no falling). Consistent with Climb Up.

For Jump Down, you make one Agi check. If you are 4" or higher, you roll with Disadvantage.

For being dazed or stunned next to a ledge, you just do a single Agi check as normal.
-->

