---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Cast Phase

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section will change prior to the start of alpha playtesting.
:::

The Cast Phase is the part of a turn your Casters can cast Spells. Spell effects are quite varied, so the following section will discuss some of the general rules that apply to Casting.

 A unit may only attempt to Cast a single Spell per turn. The phase ends when there are no other Spells you want to attempt to Cast.

This Phase is skipped during the first player's first turn of the game.
## Casting Spells
A unit may Cast Spells during the Cast Phase, as long as it is not Stunned or Dazed. To perform a Cast Check, a unit must roll equal to or higher than the Cast Difficulty of the Spell. Depending on the Spell, how well you rolled to Cast the Spell may be relevant.

If the Cast Check fails, nothing happens. If it succeeds, the Spell is resolved as per its description. If a unit attempts to Cast a Spell, they cannot Shoot in the same turn, regardless of whether the Cast Check was successful or not.

## Cast Difficulty Modifiers

If the Caster is Engaged or they Ran this turn, Casting a Spell is more difficult. Add +2 to the Cast Difficulty of the Cast Check in either of these cases. A roll of 20 on a Cast Check will always be successful, even if the difficulty would be higher than 20.




## Spell Types

### Basic Spells

osidjfodjsi

### Ongoing Spells

There are a certain type of spells known as 'Ongoing Spells'. These spells remain in effect once Cast, but a Morale Check is required at the start of each of the caster's player's turns. If it fails, the spell ends, otherwise it remains in effect.

The caster cannot have multiple instances of the same Ongoing Spell in effect at the same time, but can have different Ongoing Spells in effect at the same time.

If the Caster is Stunned or Incapacitated, the Ongoing Spell immediately ends.

### Cast Attacks

A Cast Attack is a specific type of Spell, with standard ways to handle its resolution. Other Spells may also deal damage to opponents, but may not do so in the same way, instead being described in the Spell Description as usual.

A Cast Attack has a Cast Difficulty as normal. Should a Caster pass the Cast Check for this spell, the roll of the Cast Check is also used as the result for the Injury Check, similarly to Melee or Ranged Attacks. Also similarly, the opponent makes a Defence Check. Casters cannot Cast Attack into Melee Combats, except those they are Engaged in themselves.

While this is similar to a Ranged Attack, Cast Attacks gain a number of benefits that Ranged Attacks do not. Cast Attacks have the usual penalty for Running and Casting (with a +2 to the Cast Difficulty), but they do not otherwise get penalised for Moving or for their target being in Cover. They can be used after Running or while Engaged, just as any other spell and can target someone that they are not Engaged with.




<!--
JP 30-10-25: This is covered elsewhere, plus is no outdated.

## Casting and Equipment

### Casting and Armour
Units cannot Cast Spells if they are wearing Armour (including Shields). The exception to this are Units that Cast Prayers, a specific type of Spell. In this case, a unit can freely Cast Prayers while wearing Armour.

### Casting and Weapons
The ability to Cast Spells requires a Spellbook. This takes up a single slot of Melee equipment, meaning a Hero that can cast Spells can only use a single-handed Melee Weapon. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, the cost of the Spellbook is included in the cost of the unit.

Again, units that Cast Prayers do not require a Spellbook, instead drawing on divine power to enable them to Cast Prayers.

-->

<!--
- Units that are Engaged in melee combat may not shoot
- Units that have Run this turn may not shoot
- Units that are stunned or dazed may not shoot or cast spells
- Spellcasting may still be performed even in melee or after running with +2 difficulty
-->
