---
sidebar_position: 6
---
# Ranged Phase

In this phase you may make Ranged Attacks with your units. A unit may not make a Ranged Attack if they:

* do not have a Ranged Weapon
* are [Engaged](docs/4.%20Game%20Rules/3.%20Engage%20Phase.md) in Melee
* have [Ran](docs/4.%20Game%20Rules/4.%20Move%20Phase.md#running) this turn
* have [Cast a Spell](docs/4.%20Game%20Rules/5.%20Cast%20Phase.md) this turn
* are Stunned
* are Dazed
* have already made a Ranged Attack this turn

In the Ranged Phase, you pick one of your units that can make a Ranged Attack and resolve it. This continues until you have either resolved all available Ranged Attacks or do not want to make any more Ranged Attacks, at which point the phase ends.

This Phase is skipped during the first player's first turn of the game.

## Targeting and Protecting

Choose any enemy that is in Line-of-Sight of the Shooting unit that is not Engaged as the target. Now, if the target has any allies within 2" of it, your opponent can select one of them to attempt to Protect the initial target. That unit makes a Morale Check. If it passes, it successfully Protects and becomes the target instead. Your opponent can only attempt to Protect once per Ranged Attack.

If the original target was in cover, the Protector also counts as being in cover. The Protector does not need to be within line-of-sight of the Shooting unit to be able to Protect, but does need to be able to see the ally it is attempting to Protect.

### Targeting through Windows

If a unit is next a window, they may 'peer through the window' when checking for line-of-sight. If a player decides to make a unit do this, check if there is line-of-sight between the window and the target instead. This makes it much easier to target from windows.

Should a unit do this, then any enemies may target that unit if they can see the window, until the start of that unit's next turn.

<!--
JP 30-12-25: Removed the following:

By default, the closest enemy to the Shooting unit that meets the following requirements is the only valid target to be shot at:

- Is in Line-of-Sight
- Is not Engaged

There are four exceptions to this:
1. If the closest enemy is in Cover, then the closest enemy not in Cover can be targeted instead
2. Enemies that are Stunned or Dazed can be ignored for the purposes of targeting
3. Any Large enemy can be targeted
4. Any enemy that is at least 2" below the Shooting unit can be targeted

JP 25-03-25:
Example to use:
From closest to furthest:
Stunned in Cover (Can shoot)
Stunned in Cover (Can shoot)
In Cover (Can shoot)
In Cover (Cannot shoot)
Not In Cover (Can shoot)
Not In Cover (Cannot shoot)
Large (Can shoot)
Someone that is at least 2" below the shooter (Can shoot)

Give explanation why each can or cannot be shot at
-->

## Being Elevated

If an enemy is at least 2" below your Shooting unit and within half range of the Ranged Weapon being used (this can only be measured after declaring the target to be Shot at), then the unit Shooting has Advantage on their Ranged Check.

## Cover

When Shooting at an enemy, if Line-of-Sight to the target is partially blocked by anything (eg. other units or terrain), then the target is said to have 'Cover'. This means that the shot will be less likely to hit the target as the shooter will have a negative Pierce Modifier (ie. the enemy's Defence Check will be easier).

If any part of the target's physical body is blocked from view, they have Cover. An exception to this is Clothing, equipment, or any other part of the model that would not physically hurt the unit if hit. In this case, if it was shot it does not count towards providing cover if it is blocked from view.

Similarly to how exaggerated model poses (eg. hands of a model held high above their head) do not provide Line-of-Sight if it are the only part of the model's body showing, the target does not gain Cover if it is the only part of the model's body blocked from view.

## Ranged Attacks
<!--
JP 25-03-25: Add a simple overview of how to resolve a Shot.
-->

1. Declare which of your units is attempting to Shoot, and which model is the target
2. Measure to see if the unit is within range to shoot
	1. If the unit is not within range, the Shot automatically misses
3. Your opponent may attempt to Protect with an ally that is within 2" of the target
	1. If the Morale Check is successful, the Protector is now the target
4. Perform a Ranged Check (remember the value!)
	1. If you are within half-range and at least 2" above the target you are shooting at, you get Advantage on your Ranged check
	2. If you roll a natural 20, you score a Critical Hit. Make an additional Attack and resolve it (from Step 4 onwards).
5. For each Ranged Check you pass, your opponent performs a Defence Check (see the modifiers below)
	1. The unit's Ranged Weapon may also modify this check
6. For each Defence Check they fail, reduce their Wounds by 1
7. If this lowers their Wounds to 0, determine how Injured the opponent is
	1. Start with the pool of all successful Ranged Attacks
		1. For every Wound above 1 that the enemy had, randomly select which successful Ranged Attack caused the wound, then remove that attack from the pool
8. From the remaining pool of Ranged Attacks, Injure them based on the **highest roll**, after modifiers (see the Injuries section for how this is handled)
	1. If they are Incapacitated, draw from the Improvement Deck

## Ranged Modifiers

There are a number of situations that can modify the Pierce value of a weapon being used to Shoot. If the target has cover or the Shooting unit has Moved this turn, the target will have an easier Defence Check to avoid being Injured. Getting up from being Dazed does not count as Moving.

| Situation                         | Pierce Modifier |
| --------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Target has cover                  | -3              |
| Shooting unit has Moved this turn | -3              |


