---
sidebar_position: 6
---
# Ranged Phase

In this phase you may make Ranged Attacks with your units. A unit may not make a Ranged Attack if they:
* do not have a Ranged Weapon
* are [Engaged](docs/4.%20Game%20Rules/3.%20Engage%20Phase.md) in Melee
* have [Ran](docs/4.%20Game%20Rules/4.%20Move%20Phase.md#running) this turn
* have [Cast a Spell](docs/4.%20Game%20Rules/5.%20Cast%20Phase.md) this turn
* are Stunned
* are Dazed
* have already made a Ranged Attack this turn

In the Ranged Phase, you pick one of your units that can make a Ranged Attack and resolve it. This continues until you have either resolved all available Ranged Attacks or do not want to make any more Ranged Attacks.

This Phase is skipped during the first player's first turn of the game.
## Ranged Weapons

Ranged weapons have a few attributes, as described below. These inform players on how to best use each Ranged Weapon. In addition, Ranged Weapons may have some specific special rules. A unit may have no more than one Ranged Weapon.

### Range

This describes the maximum distance between a unit and the enemy it is targeting. If the target of your Ranged Attack is further away than this distance, the attack automatically misses. If Range also impacts whether you may have Advantage during Ranged Checks. See Being Elevated for more details.

### Piercing

As described elsewhere, a weapon that has Piercing reduces the enemy's Defence by an equivalent amount when attacked by that weapon.

For example, a Pistol with Piercing +3 is used to Shoot at a Sellsword Warrior with a Shield, which has Defence 15. The Pistol reduces the Warrior's Defence to 18 during the Shot.

### Injury Modifier

As described elsewhere, a Ranged Weapon that has an Injury Modifier increases the value of a Ranged Check (or Melee Check if a Melee Weapon is being used in Melee) for the purposes of Injury, but not for the purpose of hitting the target.

For example, if a Sellsword Archer with Ranged 14 uses a Crossbow (Injury +2), they still need to roll a 14 or higher during their Ranged Check to hit. If that Archer did roll a 14 and the target failed their Defence Check, the Check would instead count as a 16 for the purposes of Injury. This means that the target would be Stunned instead of Dazed.

### Reloading Special Rules

In addition to other attributes, Ranged Weapons may have some other special rules. Two of the most common ones pertain to when they can be Reloaded. A Ranged Weapon begins the game Reloaded and, unless described otherwise, is automatically Reloaded between turns. A Ranged Weapon that is not Reloaded cannot be used to attack. The Special Rules around Reloading are described below.

<!--
JP 27-10-25: Removing the following, now that we are looking at removing this special rule.
#### Stand and Reload

Some weapons are too difficult to Reload while Moving. Stand and Reload requires a unit to forego Moving for a turn to Reload. A weapon that has this property starts the game Loaded. Once used to attack, the unit must not Move during a future Move Phase before the weapon can be used to Shoot again. A unit can forego its Move in a Move Phase and then immediately Shoot using the weapon in the Shoot Phase of the same turn.
-->
#### Long Reload

Some weapons (usually Blackpowder Weapons) require a series of steps to Reload and so take some time between shots. For this reason, a Load Reload weapon cannot be used to Shoot if it was used to Shoot in the previous turn.

## Picking a Target for Shooting
By default, the closest enemy to the Shooting unit that meets the following requirements is the only valid target to be shot at:
* Is in Line-of-Sight
* Is not Engaged

There are four exceptions to this:
1. If the closest enemy is in Cover, then the closest enemy not in Cover can be targeted instead
2. Enemies that are Stunned or Dazed can be ignored for the purposes of targeting
3. Any Large enemy can be targeted
4. Any enemy that is at least 2" below the Shooting unit can be targeted

<!--
JP 25-03-25:
Example to use:
From closest to furthest:
Stunned in Cover (Can shoot)
Stunned in Cover (Can shoot)
In Cover (Can shoot)
In Cover (Cannot shoot)
Not In Cover (Can shoot)
Not In Cover (Cannot shoot)
Large (Can shoot)
Someone that is at least 2" below the shooter (Can shoot)

Give explanation why each can or cannot be shot at
-->

## Being Elevated

If an enemy is at least 2" below your Shooting unit, they may be targeted by your unit. In addition, if the target is within half range of the Ranged Weapon being used (this can only be measured after declaring the target to be Shot at), then the unit Shooting has Advantage on their Ranged Check.

## Cover

When Shooting at an enemy, if Line-of-Sight to the target is partially blocked by anything (eg. other units or terrain), then the target is said to have 'Cover'. This means that the shot will be less likely to hit the target as the shooter will have a negative Piercing Modifier (ie. the enemy's Defence Check will be easier).

If any part of the target's physical body is blocked from view, they have Cover. An exception to this is Clothing, equipment, or any other part of the model that would not physically hurt the unit if hit. In this case, if it was shot it does not count towards providing cover if it is blocked from view.

Similarly to how exaggerated model poses (eg. hands of a model held high above their head) do not provide Line-of-Sight if it are the only part of the model's body showing, the target does not gain Cover if it is the only part of the model's body blocked from view.

## Shooting
<!--
JP 25-03-25: Add a simple overview of how to resolve a Shot.
-->

1. Declare which of your units is attempting to Shoot, and which model is the target, based on the targeting rules
2. Measure to see if the unit is within range to shoot
	1. If the unit is not within range, the Shot automatically misses
3. Perform a Ranged Check (remember the value!)
	1. If you are within half-range and at least 2" above the target you are shooting at, you get Advantage on your Ranged check
	2. If you roll a natural 20, you score a Critical Hit. Treat the attack as if you had rolled two 20s instead (ie. the opponent needs to roll two Defence checks and resolve them individually)
4. If you pass, your opponent performs a Defence Check (see the modifiers below)
5. If they fail, you reduce their Wounds by 1
	1. If this lowers their Wounds to 0, you Injure them based on what you rolled in Step 3 (see the Injuries section for how this is handled)
	2. If they are Incapacitated, draw from the Improvement Deck


## Shooting Modifiers

There are a number of situations that can modify the Piercing value of a weapon being used to Shoot. If the target has cover or the Shooting unit has Moved this turn, the target will have an easier Defence Check to avoid being Injured.

| Situation                         | Piercing Modifier |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Target has cover                  | -3                |
| Shooting unit has Moved this turn | -3                |


