---
sidebar_position: 8
---
# Multiplayer Games

It is possible to play games with more than two players. These can be epic affairs, but adding players increases the total game time and player downtime, so they should be used sparingly. In addition, the more players added (especially past the fourth), the more swingy and potentially unfair games can become.

To support multiplayer games, there a number of changes required for the game. First, Team Games and their rules will be described, followed

## Enemies, Allies & Targeting

As a general rule, any unit of other non-allied warbands are considered 'enemies' and can be targeted by anything that can target an enemy.

Similarly, any units of allied warbands are considered part of unit's warband for the purposes of targeting.

This means players can now perform Ranged Attacks and target Engaged units, as long as all of the Engaged units are enemies. If this is the case, you cannot target a specific unit and instead must declare that you will target a Melee. After you do, roll randomly from all of the enemies in line-of-sight to decide who the target of the Ranged Attack is, then resolve it as normal.


## Team Games

It is possible that players will be divided into teams (usually a 2v2 or a 3v3) for a multiplayer game. If this is the case, all warbands on the same team take their turns at the same time. If it is a free-for-all (ie. there are no teams), players always take their turns separately.

If a team game is being played, treat all warbands of the same team as a single warband for all purposes. This means a 2v2 or a 3v3 battle would be set up the same as a 1v1 game, but on a larger map with more Treasure and a higher Rout Threshold.

The exceptions to this are described below.

### Map Size & Treasure

Depending on the player count, use the following parameters.

| Players | Map Size | Treasure Tokens | Treasure Token Layout           | Team Rout Threshold |
| ------- | -------- | --------------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| 4       | 3' by 4' | 9               | 3x3 array                       | 12                  |
| 6       | 3' by 6' | 13              | 4x3 array, plus 1 in the centre | 20                  |

### Picking Up Treasure

If two or more allied units of different warbands wish to pick up a Treasure Token (ie. they are close enough and no enemy is nearby), both warbands make a Morale Check using one of their units that are able to pick it up. If only one succeeds, they pick it up. If multiple succeed, the higher roll takes the Treasure (reroll on a tie). If all fail, the Treasure is not picked up that turn.

Events and Blights do not trigger during a multiplayer game, so can be ignored.

<!--
JP 04-01-26: Idk if there is a simpler way to resolve this, but I think it works okay?

-->

### Team Routing

When checking for Routing, all Incapacitated units from the same team and all Treasure Tokens held by enemies should be counted towards a shared Team Rout Threshold. If Rout Checks need to be made, the team collectively makes one using the Hero with the highest Morale that is not Incapacitated. If they fail, the entire team Routs. After passing a Rout Check, if any player on the team wishes to Voluntarily Rout, the entire team Routs.

### Grabbing Treasure after Team Routing

When a team routs, they may make Morale Checks to try and grab Treasure, using the same rules as a regular game. If two or more warbands of the same team are contesting the same Treasure Token, they all make rolls. If only one succeeds, they are the one that takes the Treasure Token. If multiple succeed, the player that rolled the higher value during the Morale Check picks up the Treasure. If all fail, the Treasure is lost (or the enemy can attempt to pick up the Treasure).

<!--
JP 04-01-26: Idk if there is a simpler way to resolve this, but it's very convoluted. Same with picking up Treasure. It's definitely still better if both players go at the same time though, as it speeds up the game soooo much.

Some other options:
1. Players need to come to an agreement, but idk how this would work.
2. All players become enemies at the end for purposes of picking up Treasure (this might be simpler). Just need to have handling for if they both lose (which would probably just be that neither player gets it??).
-->

## Free-For-All Games

Free-For-All games are chaotic fights against multiple opponents and require a number of modified or additional rules to handle having more than two groups fighting each other.

### Faction support

When calculating Faction Support, each player compares their Wins to the player with the most Wins.

For example in a three player game, Alice has 4 wins, Bob has 3 wins, and Carmen has 2 wins. Bob will get 15g worth of Faction Support for this game as he has 1 less win than Alice, while Carmen will get 30g worth of Faction Support, as she has 2 less wins than Alice.

### Map Setup & Deployment

#### Map Size

For larger games, table size can quickly become a limiting factor. We give two suggestions for each player count up to 6. Use the size that fits your table the best. Option 1 is preferred, if possible, as it spaces players out more evenly.

| Players | Option 1 | Deployment Positions                                                                                                                                                    | Option 2     | Deployment Positions                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 3       | 3' by 4' | Two corners of the same 4' edge. Last player is on the middle of the opposite edge.                                                                                     | 3.5' by 3.5' | Two corners of the same edge. Last player is in the middle of the opposite edge.                                                                                            |
| 4       | 4' by 4' | Four corners.                                                                                                                                                           | 3' by 5'     | Four corners.                                                                                                                                                               |
| 5       | 4' by 5' | Two corners of the same 4' edge. Two players 3' away from those corners along each 5' edge. The final player is in the middle of the opposite 4' edge to the first two. | 4.5' by 4.5' | Two corners of the same edge. Two players 2.5' away from those corners along each connecting edge. The final player is in the middle of the opposite edge of the first two. |
| 6       | 4' by 6' | Two players along each 6' edge, one at 2' and one at 4' along. Final two players in the middle of the 4' edges.                                                         | 5' by 5'     | Two players along one edge, one at 1' and one at 4' along. Two players repeat the same on the opposite edge. One player in the middle of the remaining two edges.           |

<!--
JP 03-01-26:
I will add diagrams of the deployment positions described above later so that it's not so confusing. This is primarily for my own reference and so that we can run multiplayer games without needing to figure all of this out ahead of time. The diagrams would also include the treasure token layout below.
-->

The map is then set up as normal, either based on Special Scenario rules or by rolling randomly on the Map Type table.

#### Add Treasure Tokens

The number of Treasure Tokens is equal to twice the player count, plus one. The Rout Threshold is one higher than the number of Treasure Tokens. The table below lists this, along with the layouts for the Treasure Tokens.

| Players | Treasure Tokens | Rout Threshold | Treasure Token Layout                                                                                   |
| ------- | --------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 3       | 7               | 8              | Like pips of a 6-sided die, plus one in the middle.                                                     |
| 4       | 9               | 10             | 3 by 3 array for 4' by 4'. For 3' by 5': a 2x4 array with one in the absolute middle.                   |
| 5       | 11              | 12             | 3x3 array with one in the middle of each 3x2 within that? Or maybe 2x5 with one in the absolute middle? |
| 6       | 13              | 14             | No idea                                                                                                 |

Events and Blights do not trigger during multiplayer games, so can be ignored.

<!--
JP 03-01-26:
Need to have a good think on these treasure layouts to make sure they actually make sense. It could be a good way to reward people that are in worse positions (so higher risk but higher reward). Something to think more about in the future.
-->

#### Deployment

Determine deployment order randomly (ie. all players roll a d20, then deploy in order of highest to lowest, rerolling any ties). Once deployment order has been determined, players can begin deploying their warbands.

For higher player counts, deployment zones become more constrained to ensure there is sufficient space between warbands. All deployments are based on a single point. All units of a warband must be deployed within 4" of this point.

When choosing where to deploy, players can decide on any position that would keep the layout for that map size and player count valid. Often this means that the first player will lock in the possible deployment positions for the other players.

After selecting their deployment position, players deploy immediately. Turn order for the game will be the same as deployment order. Write down the order so that it's not forgotten.

## First Round

#### First Round Limitations

The limitations for the first turn extend out to the entirety of the first round in multiplayer games.

During the first round, you cannot do the following:

* Pick up Treasure
* Target units of warbands that have not yet taken a turn. This includes:
	* Engaging
	* Casting Spells
	* Ranged Attacks

This prevents situations where a player is not able to at least attempt to avoid Ranged Attacks and Engages from opposing enemies.

For example in a three player game, Alice goes first, Bob goes second, and Carmen goes last. Alice cannot target anyone on her first turn, Bob can only target Alice on his first turn, and Carmen can target anyone on her first turn.

#### Vanguard Units

Before the first turn, any units with the 'Vanguard' skill may make a Move or Run action. If multiple players have Vanguard units, these units act in deployment order.






### Melee Phase

During each player's Melee Phase, all Melees that contain at least one of the player's units are resolved. This means that a Melee may be resolved multiple times for a player's unit between that player's turn. Overall, this makes Melee even deadlier than normal, so care must be taken when Engaging.

<!--
JP 03-01-26:
I realised that multiplayer melee works a little different than what I thought in mordies. Essentially if A is Engaged with B and B is Engaged with C then:
- On A's turn: A and B activate
- On B's turn: A, B, and C activate
- On C's turn: B and C activate

I had thought that A, B, and C would activate on everyone's turn.

Any preference on how to handle it? Mordies way is less brutal, but having everything activate all the time is simpler.
-->

## Routing

Warbands still track their own Incapacitated units for the purposes of Routing, but all Treasure tokens held by enemies (including those removed from the board from other warbands Routing) also count toward the Rout Threshold. At the start of each turn, check a Rout check needs to be made. If so, make it. You may also Voluntarily Rout immediately after passing a Rout Check.

### Grabbing Treasure after Routing

When a warband routs, they may make Morale checks immediately to try and grab any Treasure that is within 5" of one of their units as they Rout. As usual, only one attempt can be made per Treasure. If any enemy unit is within 5" of the Treasure, the Morale check may not be made.



