---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Blightmeer Setting

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section is actively being worked on and will change.
:::

Blightmeer is undergoing a crisis. A wealthy city state and trade hub on the peninsula of a heavily used sea route, it has been hit by a fast-spreading and deadly disease called the 'Blight'. Since its outbreak, the port city has been quaratined by land and sea blockade by its neighbours. Its now been years since the start of the outbreak and the city is descending into ruin, but its inhabitants live on.

Since Blightmeer was quarantined it's become impossible to escape, except by illegal means. Because of this, most of Blightmeer's vast wealth still remains inside, attracting smugglers and other denizens of the Underworld. These people are willing to brave the threat of death, either by the Blight or at the hands of those blockading Blightmeer, for potentially great personal gain.

Meanwhile, the government within Blightmeer continues to function, but only barely. The Justicars, Priests, and other bureaucrats struggle to retain power as it slips from their grasp. Rebels seek to overthrow them for the common folk, foreign powers seek to overthrow them for the vast stores of wealth, all while cults lurking inside the struggling city continue to spread the Blight to all.

Many groups on the outside are drawn to Blightmeer, arming themselves and forming warbands for power, glory, or riches. The blockade lets them pass freely into Blightmeer, with the knowledge that they will be unlikely to leave. Other groups already within the port city form into warbands, desperate enough to use violence to shape the cityscape.

Each player's warband is one such group. Their backgrounds and goals will inevitably be in conflict. Who can achieve their aims and who will fall into the disease-ridden gutters of Blightmeer?