---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# General Wargaming

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section is actively being worked on and will change.
:::
## Objective

adf
## What You Need

There are a number of things needed to play Blightmeer, just like most wargames. Some are simpler than others, but ultimately players should be able to use what they have on hand to start their first game.
### Tabletop

One of the most basic things players need is a 3' by 3' flat playing surface to act as the game board. Dining tables are a staple of wargames and most should be big enough to play on. As a last resort, players could even use the floor.
### Models

The heart of any wargame is the models or miniatures. Blightmeer is a model agnostic system, meaning that any models that fit the fantastical setting can be used. If players don't have access to such models, they can use toy figurines, or even create paper standees from scratch.

These models are the physical representations of a warband's units within the game world and are physically moved around the board to show where units move.

#### What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG)

Many wargames have a concept known as 'what you see is what you get'. This means that a unit's equipment is reflected by the model that represents it. So if a unit has a sword and shield, the model of the unit also has a sword and shield.

We heavily encourage adhering to WYSIWYG, where practical. Some reasonable exceptions are as follows:

- a ranged unit's melee weapon is not represented on the model
- only the melee or ranged weapons of a hero are represented on the model
- the model's weapon is not one that the unit can use
	- choose the closest equivalent as it's equipment instead
- any magic items that are acquired during the course of a campaign

If a unit's equipment could be swapped to make it closer to the model's equipment, a player should do so. So, if a model has a sword, then the unit should not have a spear equipped.

If people so wish, they can go as far as representing injuries, promotions to heroes, or magic items on their models. This is certainly not required however.

Ultimately, this is up to the group to decide how strictly they wish to adhere to this. The end goal should be to minimise confusion about a unit's equipment for others (and even yourself) and keeping on theme where possible.

### Tape Measure

Players should have at least one tape measure, ruler, or other measuring device with inches marked on it. Ideally, each player should one. All distances are described in inches (or sometimes feet) within this rulebook.
### Dice

Blightmeer is a d20 system, which means it exclusively uses 20-sided dice (ie. a 'd20'). We recommend four d20 to keep gameplay as quick as possible, but it's possible to play with a single die.
### Terrain

One of the most important parts of skirmish wargames, players should have enough terrain to almost entirely fill the game board with terrain.

asdf
### Warband Sheets

adf

### Other Printouts
## Wargaming Concepts

### Measuring

#### How to Measure

adsf
#### When to Measure

adsf
### Moving

adsf
### Engaging in Melee Combat

afds
### Making Checks

adsf
### Attacking

adsf
### Line-of-Sight

asdf

### Declaring

## Structure

### Deployment

adfs
### Rounds

adfs
### Turns

adf
### Game End

adf