---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Skills List
---
# Skills List

## Inherent 
*Inherent skills can never be chosen on level ups. Only certain characters start with these skills.*
### +2 Piercing
*Inherent*

This unit gains +2 Piercing for all its attacks.
### Animal
*Inherent*

This unit cannot Promote, use ladders (except by making a full Climb Check), pick up Treasure, or use equipment.
### Armoursmith
*Inherent*

If a warband contains a unit with this Skill, it gains the ability to purchase Mithril Armour.
### Berserker
*Inherent*

At the end of the Engage Phase, if there is an enemy within Line-of-Sight and Engage range, this unit attempts to Engage the closest such unit. For the turn that this unit Engages or is Engaged, it gains an Advantage on its Attacks. This unit cannot wear Armour or use a Shield.
### Big Hitter 1
*Inherent*

This unit gets +2 Inj and +2 Piercing for melee attacks.
### Can't promote
*Inherent*

This unit cannot promote into a hero.
### Ethereal
*Inherent*

This unit may not have its Defense reduced by equipment.
### Fear
*Inherent*

This unit causes Fear.
### Flying
*Inherent*

This unit can move through the air in any direction. They must not end their movement in the air.
### Follower
*Inherent*

This unit does not count for the purposes of a warband's max units.
### Free Skill
*Inherent*

This unit may pick a skill of their choice that they could normally learn when hired.
### Healer
*Inherent*

This unit can make a morale check in the upkeep phase to remove the dazed or stunned condition from one friendly unit within 3".
### Holy Standard
*Inherent*

Allied units within 6" of this unit can roll Morale Checks with Advantage. Rout Checks cannot gain Advantage in this way.
### Ki Strike
*Inherent*

When fighting Unarmed, targets roll their Defense Check with Disadvantage.
### Large
*Inherent*

This unit may not be purchased at warband creation. It counts as two units for the purpose of Rout Checks. It may be targeted by ranged attacks even if they aren't the closest model to the shooter.
### Leader
*Inherent*

Allied units within 5" of this unit can use this unit's Morale stat for Checks instead of their own.
### Melee Bonus
*Inherent*

This unit gets a +2 to their melee skill.
### Mounted
*Inherent*

This unit is a boss dog that rides a mount.
### No Equipment
*Inherent*

This unit may not have any equipment, but does not suffer the penalties for fighting Unarmed.
### Pack Tactics
*Inherent*

If this unit attacks an enemy that is also engaged with an ally of the unit, the unit has advantage on the attack.
### Ranged Bonus
*Inherent*

This unit gets a +2 to their ranged skill.
### Slow
*Inherent*

This unit may not Run, but may Engage as normal (ie. up to 1.5x of base Move).
### Spread Plague
*Inherent*

Bottom text
### Stupid
*Inherent*

If this unit is not within 6" of an allied hero roll morale. If you fail you mat not move or attack on your turn.
### Undead
*Inherent*

This unit may not Run, but may Engage as normal (ie. up to 1.5x of base Move). If this unit would be Stunned, it is instead counted as Dazed. This unit is immune to disease (including the Plague).
### Upkeep 1
*Inherent*

You must pay this unit 10g at the end of each battle. If you are unable to pay this gold the unit will not be available for your next battle.
### Weaponsmith
*Inherent*

If a warband starts a game with a unit with this Skill, all Ranged Weapons have their Range increased by 10", except for Pistols whose Range is incrased by 5"

## Melee 
### Ambush
*Melee*

This unit gets Advantage on the first round of combat when they Engage an enemy
### Blade Defence
*Melee*

This unit gains a +3 defence when not wearing armour or wielding a shield in melee
### Cleave
*Melee*

+1 attack for each enemy target engaged in melee beyond the first
### Deadly
*Melee*

+2 to injury rolls in melee
### Improved Critical
*Melee*

This unit can trigger a critical strike on a 19-20

## Ranged 
### Master Thrower
*Ranged*

This unit can throw a number of projectiles up to their attack value. This may target multiple targets.
### Precise
*Ranged*

This unit can ignore cover penalties when firing at enemies
### Quick Reload
*Ranged*

This unit treats ranged weapons with Prepare Shot as Long Reload instead. If instead the weapon has Long Reload they can ignore the rule.
### Sniper
*Ranged*

This unit gains a +9" to all ranged weapons

## Agility 
### Agile
*Agility*

This unit gets advantage on all agility checks.
### Dodge
*Agility*

This unit gets a +3 to ranged defence when not wearing any armour or wielding a shield.
### Runner
*Agility*

This units run speed is 2x their base movement instead of 1.5x.
### Strike First
*Agility*

This unit will always strike first in the first round of combat. If the enemy unit also has this then they cancel out.

## Defense 

## Morale 
### Battle Caster
*Morale*

This unit may wear armour and use a shield while casting spells.
### Fearless
*Morale*

The unit is immune to Fear checks.
### Haggle
*Morale*

This unit may reduce the cost of a piece of equipment by 1d20 rolled with disadvantage once after each game.
### Hoarder
*Morale*

When a unit of your warband dies you can keep one piece of equipment from that unit. This skill can be used once per battle.
### Iron Will
*Morale*

If a leader takes this skill they may extend their 'Leader' skill's range by 5"
### Magic Initiate
*Morale*

This unit may learn basic magic. Immediately pick one spell from the basic spells list.
### Spell Master
*Morale*

This unit gets a +2 to their spellcasting checks.
### Treasure Hunter
*Morale*

If any unit in the your warband has this skill, you can roll on the Loot table when rolling a 19-20 on a Treasure Roll, rather than the usual 20.

## Spellcasting 
### Cult Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit can cast Cult Magic and immediately learns one spell of your choice. If this unit is not a Leader, all spellcasting checks have a -2 to the roll.
### Divine Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Divine Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As a Divine Spellcaster, this unit has the usual three slots for weapons and can use armour and shields as normal.
### Forest Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Spellcaster, this unit has an innate spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.
### Necromantic Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Spellcaster, this unit has an innate spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.
### Plague Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Spellcaster, this unit has an innate spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.
### Vampiric Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Spellcaster, this unit has an innate spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.

## Paladins 
### Determination
*Paladins*

This unit may re-roll their first failed morale check of each battle.

## Undead 
### Advanced Necromancy
*Undead*

This can only be taken by a Necromancer. Death Knights and Reapers can now be the target of the 'Raise Dead' spell. The Difficulty of the spell is increased by 5 when they are the target.

## Wood Elves 
### Blur
*Wood Elves*

If an enemy attempts to Engage this unit and this unit is in cover, the enemy must make an Out-of-Sight Roll as if the unit was out of Line-of-Sight.

## Vampires 
### Bloodthirsty
*Vampires*

If this unit Incapacitates another unit in Melee they may recover one Wound.

## Ratlings 
### Keen Tail
*Ratlings*

This unit can use their tail to equip a one handed weapon as though it was another arm gaining an extra attack.

## Inquisitors 
### Heed the Scripture
*Inquisitors*

This unit can use the morale of the Doomsayer if they are within 5" of it.
### Inquisitor
*Inquisitors*

This unit gets a +2 Injury modifier against all enemy heroes for melee attacks.
### The Rapture is Nigh
*Inquisitors*

This unit counts as two heroes for the purposes of the 'Incite the Mob' special rule.

## Cultists 
### Mutation
*Cultists*

Select one monstrosity trait for the unit to adopt. Monstrosities can't use equipment and can't mutate any further. Monstrosities lose spellcasting unless it is your leader. You can have a maximum of 3 of each monstrosity trait (combined count from heroes and henchmen).
