---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Skills List
---
# Skills List

## Inherent 
*Inherent skills can never be chosen on level ups. Only certain characters start with these skills.*
### Animal
*Inherent*

This unit cannot Promote, use ladders (except by making a full Climb Check), pick up Treasure, benefit from the 'Leader' skill or use equipment (but is not penalised for fighting Unarmed).
### Armoursmith
*Inherent*

If a warband contains a unit with this Skill, it gains the ability to purchase Mithril Armour.
### Berserker
*Inherent*

At the end of the Engage Phase, if there is an enemy within Line-of-Sight and Engage range, this unit attempts to Engage the closest such unit.
### Blight for the Blight God
*Inherent*

This unit is immune to the Blight. At the start of the game, select an ally unit that does not have the Blight. It contracts the Blight.
### Bounty Hunter
*Inherent*

At the start of the game, select an enemy hero at random to be the target. This unit may not Engage, Intercept, or make Ranged Attacks against any other units until the target is Incapacitated. If Engaged, this unit will fight back as usual. This unit has Advantage on attacks against the target. When the target is Incapacitated, it drops a Treasure as if it was holding one.
### Cowardly
*Inherent*

If this unit is not within 5" of an allied hero at the start of its turn, it cannot act during the Engage, Move, Cast, and Ranged phases. It can act in Melee Combat as normal.
### Deathwish
*Inherent*

This unit cannot equip Armour, Shields, or Ranged Weapons.
### Disengage
*Inherent*

At the end of your Upkeep Phase, if this unit is Engaged it may make a Morale Check. If it succeeds, it may move 1" to get out of the Engage. It may not Engage this turn.
### Divine Cure
*Inherent*

Once at the end of the game, if this unit was not Incapacitated, it may attempt to cure someone of the Blight. After making Scar and Blight rolls, this unit makes a Morale Check. On a success, select a unit that has the Blight. It no longer has the Blight.
### Ethereal
*Inherent*

This unit may move through terrain and other units as if they weren't there, but may not ends its movement inside of terrain or other units. It must still make Out-of-Sight Rolls as normal and must move through terrain or units when Engaging if this will make the path to its target shorter. It may be intercepted by enemies as normal. It may not Protect others from Ranged Attacks.
### Fence
*Inherent*

If this unit ends the game with a Treasure, the player can forgo rolling for Income for this Treasure. If they do so, roll on the Loot table and gain that Loot.
### Fixed Equipment (Farm Tools)
*Inherent*

This unit has fixed equipment that cannot be lost or changed. The equipment modifers are included in the unit's stats and cost.
### Fixed Equipment (Holy Standard)
*Inherent*

This unit has fixed equipment that cannot be lost or changed. The equipment modifers are included in the unit's stats and cost.
### Fixed Equipment (Scythe)
*Inherent*

This unit has fixed equipment that cannot be lost. The equipment modifers are included in the unit's stats and cost.
### Flying
*Inherent*

This unit can move through the air in any direction. They must not end their movement in the air.
### Follower
*Inherent*

This unit does not count for the purposes of a warband's max units.
### Hard to Kill
*Inherent*

This unit has a -2 to Injury rolls made against it (eg. an unmodified roll of 19 would count as a 17, Stunning rather than Incapacitating the unit).
### Hatred
*Inherent*

This unit hates a specific unit, unit type, or warband. This unit makes Melee Checks with Advantage against enemies it hates.
### Healer
*Inherent*

This unit can use the 'Heal' Divine Magic spell.
### Heed the Scripture
*Inherent*

This unit can use the morale of the Doomsayer if they are within 5" of it.
### Inquisitor
*Inherent*

This unit gets a +2 Pierce modifier against all enemy heroes for melee attacks.
### Ki Strike
*Inherent*

When fighting Unarmed, targets roll their Defence Check with Disadvantage.
### Large
*Inherent*

This unit may not be purchased at warband creation. It counts as two units for the purpose of Rout Checks. It cannot pick up Treasure. This unit is immune to the Blight. It cannot Promote.
### Leader
*Inherent*

Allied, non-animal units within 5" of this unit can use this unit's Morale stat for Checks instead of their own.
### Madness
*Inherent*

This unit makes all Morale Checks with Disadvantage.
### Mark Target
*Inherent*

Once per Ranged Phase, instead of making a Ranged Attack, this unit may instead Mark an enemy unit within 10" (and within line-of-sight) until the start of the next turn. A unit that is Marked can be targeted by Ranged Attacks even when the unit is Engaged, but cannot be Protected from such Ranged Attacks.
### Mob Mentality
*Inherent*

This unit cannot pick up Treasure. If this unit is not within 5" of a Peasant or Doomsayer at the end of the Upkeep Phase, it must make a Morale Check. If it fails, it is immediately Incapacitated.
### Mounted
*Inherent*

This unit cannot use ladders or make Climb Checks. It gains +3 Mov and +1 Wnd, which are already reflected in its stat block.
### No Equipment
*Inherent*

This unit may not have any equipment, but does not suffer the penalties for fighting Unarmed.
### Pack Tactics
*Inherent*

If this unit attacks an enemy that is also in base contact with an ally that also has Pack Tactics, this unit has advantage on the attack.
### Pit Fighter
*Inherent*

This unit treats Dazed results against it as Staggered instead.
### Raise Ally
*Inherent*

This unit can cast the 'Raise Ally' spell: One allied unit that was Incapacitated after the end of your last turn immediately returns to the battle as a Zombie (use the same stats as the Undead warband Zombie). It no longer counts towards your Rout Threshold. Place the model within 5" of the Caster. The model cannot be placed such that it is Engaged with an enemy.
### Rally the Troops
*Inherent*

Allied units within 5" of this unit can roll Morale Checks with Advantage. Rout Checks cannot gain Advantage in this way.
### Slow
*Inherent*

This unit may not Run, but may Engage as normal (ie. up to 1.5x of base Move).
### Spread Blight (Major)
*Inherent*

If this unit Incapacitates or is Incapacitated by an enemy in Melee, that unit must make a Morale Check. If they fail it, they immediately contract the Blight. This unit is immune to the Blight.
### Spread Blight (Minor)
*Inherent*

If this unit Incapacitates an enemy in Melee, that unit must make a Morale Check. If they fail it, they immediately contract the Blight. This unit is immune to the Blight. If this unit is Incapacitated in Melee, nothing happens.
### Stupor
*Inherent*

When this unit attempts to Engage, make a Morale Check. On a failure, the Engage fails and the unit moves 5" away from the target.
### Temporary Ally
*Inherent*

This unit eventually becomes hostile to all other units. At the end of your Upkeep Phase, if at least one of your units was Incapacitated last turn, your Leader makes a Morale Check. On a failure, this unit becomes hostile. From now on, it will act during the Neutral Step of the next player's Upkeep Phase. It uses the usual rules for Neutral Units.
### The Rapture is Nigh
*Inherent*

This unit counts as two heroes for the purposes of the 'Incite the Mob' special rule.
### Turncloak
*Inherent*

At the end of your opponent's Move Phase, if this unit is not carrying a Treasure, it can be bribed to switch sides. If your opponent has a unit with Treasure within 2" of this unit, your opponent can make this unit make a Morale Check. On a failure, this unit takes the Treasure and is now under your opponent's conrol for the remainder of the battle. If it was Engaged with an enemy unit, it is no longer Engaged with them. If this unit has a Treasure at the end of the battle, it is lost.
### Undead
*Inherent*

This unit may not Run, but may Engage as normal (ie. up to 1.5x of base Move). If this unit would be Stunned, it is instead counted as Dazed. This unit is immune to the Blight.
### Unholy Presence
*Inherent*

Any allies of this unit have Disadvantage on all Morale Checks.
### Vampire
*Inherent*

If there is a non-Undead, non-Animal ally within 2" at the end of your Upkeep Phase and this unit has less than their maximum Wounds, you must immediately Incapacitate that ally to remove Staggered from this unit and gain one Wound.
### Weaponsmith
*Inherent*

If a warband starts a game with a unit with this Skill, all Ranged Weapons have their Range increased by 10", except for Pistols whose Range is incrased by 5". Blunderbuss range is unaffected.

## Melee 
### Ambush
*Melee*

This unit gets Advantage on the first round of combat when they Engage an enemy.
### Cleave
*Melee*

If this unit Incapacitates an enemy in Melee, they may immediately make another Attack.
### Deadly
*Melee*

+2 to injury rolls in melee
### Dual Wielding Specialist
*Melee*

If this unit is dual wielding Melee weapons, it double its Attacks in Melee instead of gaining the usual one additional Attack.
### Grapple
*Melee*

This unit may declare it is replacing all of its attacks with a single grapple before attacking. If it does, make a Melee check without modifiers. On a success, the target may not make a Defence check and both this unit and its target immediately become Dazed. This may not be used on Large units.
### Great Weapon Specialist
*Melee*

If this unit is using a two-handed weapon, the enemy has Disadvantage on Defence Checks against them in Melee.
### Hero Killer
*Melee*

If this unit rolls an unmodified Melee Attack of 18-20, the target automatically fails its Defence Check.
### Improved Critical
*Melee*

This unit can trigger a critical strike on a 19-20
### Magebane
*Melee*

This unit has Advantage against Casters in Melee.
### Shove
*Melee*

This unit may declare it is replacing one or more of its attacks with shoves before attacking. If it does, make a Melee check for each shove without modifiers. On a success, the target may not make a Defence check and is immediately pushed back 2", moving it out of Melee. This may not be used on Large units and the unit may not attack a unit they are also shoving.

## Ranged 
### Arbalist
*Ranged*

Crossbows used by this unit gain +2 Injury.
### Archer
*Ranged*

Bows used by this unit gain Close Quarters.
### Gunner
*Ranged*

This unit cannot misfire with Blackpowder weapons (the Blunderbuss can still misfire).
### Heavy Gunner
*Ranged*

This unit may use any Ranged weapon with a Shield.
### Master Thrower
*Ranged*

This unit can throw a number of projectiles up to their attack value. This may target multiple targets.
### Piercing Shot
*Ranged*

This unit may roll Ranged Attacks with Disadvantage. If it does, the enemy cannot make Defence checks.
### Precise
*Ranged*

This unit can ignore cover penalties when firing at enemies
### Quick Reload
*Ranged*

This unit ignores the Long Reload special rule for weapons.
### Sniper
*Ranged*

This unit gains +5" range to all Ranged weapons.

## Agility 
### Agile
*Agility*

This unit gets Advantage on all Agility checks.
### Coup de Grace
*Agility*

This unit may target Dazed or Stunned enemies, even if a non-Stunned or Dazed enemy is Engaged with them.
### Dodge
*Agility*

Ranged attacks cannot have Advantage against this unit.
### Fencing Specialist
*Agility*

If this unit is using a one-handed weapon and no Shield, they have Advantage on Defence Checks in Melee.
### Leap
*Agility*

This unit's max jump distance is increased by 3".
### Sneaky
*Agility*

Out-of-Sight rolls against this unit are rolled with Disadvantage.
### Sprint
*Agility*

This unit's Run speed is double its base Move.
### Strike First
*Agility*

This unit will always strike first in the first round of combat. If the enemy unit also has this then they cancel out.
### Surefooted
*Agility*

You ignore the effects of Difficult terrain.
### Thief
*Agility*

This unit may pick up Treasure, even when it is contested.
### Vanguard
*Agility*

After unit deployment, but before any player takes their first turn, this unit may perform a Run. If multiple players have units with this skill, resolve it in turn order. This unit may never pick up Treasure tokens.

## Defence 
### Blade Defence
*Defence*

This unit gains +2 Defence when not wearing Armour or wielding a Shield in melee
### Defensive Stance
*Defence*

Enemies don't get to automatically attack first in Melee on the turn they Engage. Resolve it based on Agility instead.
### Drag You Down
*Defence*

If this unit is Incapacitated in Melee, the Incapacitator makes an Injury Roll after resolving its Melee Attacks.
### Protector
*Defence*

You have Advantage on Morale checks to Protect other units from Ranged Attacks and always count as being in Cover when doing so.
### Shield Specialist
*Defence*

If this unit is using a Shield, it gains one additional Attack in Melee.
### Sturdy
*Defence*

This unit cannot be Staggered.
### Taunt
*Defence*

If an enemy attempts to Engage an ally within 5" of this unit, this unit may make a Morale Check. On a success, the enemy attempts to Engage this unit instead.
### Tough
*Defence*

When this unit is Injured, the opponent rolls again and takes the lower result.

## Morale 
### Animal Handler
*Morale*

This unit may make a Morale Check against an Animal within 5" during the Ranged Phase (instead of a Ranged Attack). If the unit passes, the Animal cannot Engage or Move on its following turn.
### Battle Caster
*Morale*

This unit may wear armour and use a shield while casting spells.
### Dread Aura
*Morale*

Enemy units within 5" of this unit have Disadvantage on Morale Checks.
### Fear
*Morale*

This unit causes Fear.
### Haggle
*Morale*

This unit may reduce the cost of a piece of equipment by 1d20 rolled with disadvantage once after each game.
### Hoarder
*Morale*

When a unit of your warband dies you can keep one piece of equipment from that unit. This skill can be used once per battle.
### Iron Will
*Morale*

If a leader takes this skill they may extend their 'Leader' skill's range by 5"
### Magic Initiate
*Morale*

This unit may learn basic magic. Immediately pick one spell from the basic spells list.
### Spell Master
*Morale*

This unit gets a +2 to their spellcasting checks.
### Spell Sniper
*Morale*

This unit's Cast Attack spells have their range increased by 5".
### Treasure Hunter
*Morale*

If any unit in the your warband has this skill, you can roll on the Loot table when rolling a 19-20 on a Treasure Roll, rather than the usual 20.
### War Caster
*Morale*

This unit has Advantage on Moracle checks for Ongoing Spells.

## Spellcasting 
### Blight Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Caster, this unit has an innate 'Basic' spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.
### Divine Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Divine Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As a Divine Caster, this unit has the usual three slots for weapons and can use armour and shields as normal.
### Life Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Caster, this unit has an innate 'Basic' spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.
### Necromantic Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Caster, this unit has an innate 'Basic' spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.
### Vampiric Magic
*Spellcasting*

This unit is capable of casting Arcane Magic. See the relevant spell list for a list of learnable spells. As an Arcane Caster, this unit has an innate 'Basic' spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt. It also only has a single weapon slot which must be a melee weapon and is unable to use armour or a shield.
