---
sidebar_label: Faction Units
---
# Faction Units
## Law Faction Agents
### XYZ the Archbishop
*Agent:* _Human_ _Archbishop_

*Cost:* 40

As the (now disgraced) head of the church within Blightmeer, blah has been heavily criticised for allowing the Blight to spread to all corners of Blightmeer. He is commonly seen throughout the Blightmeer doing his best to heal the diseased and occasionally smite the forces of Chaos.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 13| - | 12| 10| 7| 1 | 1| 0| 4| Healer, Divine Cure

This unit is equipped with a Hammer and Shield. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Healer
This unit can use the 'Heal' Divine Magic spell.
##### Divine Cure
Once at the end of the game, if this unit was not Incapacitated, it may attempt to cure someone of the Blight. After making Scar and Blight rolls, this unit makes a Morale Check. On a success, select a unit that has the Blight. It no longer has the Blight.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** XYZ and his henchmen are hostile to Chaos warbands. Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit, with two Law Henchmen, one on either side of him.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ performs normal actions. Once per game, if XYZ ends his move within 5" of a unit with the Blight, he makes a Morale Check. On a success, the unit is cured of the Blight. Retreats if there are no enemies and no units with Blight (or he has already attempted to cure someone).
 
**Other Behaviours:** Willing to ally with Law warbands.
### XYZ the Sellsword
*Agent:* _Ratling_ _Sellsword_

*Cost:* 45

This sellsword can be convinced to fight for you and just as equally be convinced to fight against you.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 8| 9| - | 18| 8| 16| 2 | 2| 0| 7| Turncloak

This unit is equipped with a Great Hammer. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Turncloak
At the end of your opponent's Move Phase, if this unit is not carrying a Treasure, it can be bribed to switch sides. If your opponent has a unit with Treasure within 2" of this unit, your opponent can make this unit make a Morale Check. On a failure, this unit takes the Treasure and is now under your opponent's conrol for the remainder of the battle. If it was Engaged with an enemy unit, it is no longer Engaged with them. If this unit has a Treasure at the end of the battle, it is lost.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit. He is holding the Treasure. He is an ally to the warband of the triggering unit and is hostile to all other warbands.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ performs normal actions.
 
**Other Behaviours:** If an enemy unit ends its Move within 2" of XYZ, it can give up the Treasure it's holding to XYZ. If the unit does so, that treasure is removed from the game. XYZ is now an ally to that unit's warband and is hostile to all other warbands.
### XYZ the Grand Inquisitor
*Agent:* _Human_ _Grand Inquisitor_

*Cost:* 50

As the head of the inqusition, blah's job is to stamp out the evil, corruption, and rot from Blightmeer. He does so through bribery, extortion, and other forms of coercion.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 8| - | 17| 8| 7| 1 | 2| 3| 3| Inquisitor, Fear

This unit is equipped with a Great Sword. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Inquisitor
This unit gets a +2 Pierce modifier against all enemy heroes for melee attacks.
##### Fear
This unit causes Fear.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** XYZ and his henchmen are hostile to everyone. Place XYZ on the nearest board edge with two Law henchmen, one on either side of him.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ and his henchmen perform normal actions.
 
**Other Behaviours:** XYZ does not target units that are not Arcane Casters or carrying Treasure, unless there are no other targets. Willing to ally with any warband.
### XYZ the Folk Hero
*Agent:* _Dwarf_ _Folk Hero_

*Cost:* 45

This dwarf is a hero of the people.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 5| 13| - | 8| 14| 7| 1 | 1| 3| 0| Hard to Kill, Protector

This unit is equipped with a Sword and Shield. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Hard to Kill
This unit has a -2 to Injury rolls made against it (eg. an unmodified roll of 19 would count as a 17, Stunning rather than Incapacitating the unit).
##### Protector
You have Advantage on Morale checks to Protect other units from Ranged Attacks and always count as being in Cover when doing so.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit. He is holding the Treasure. Place three Peasants around him (use the Peasant stat block from the Inquisitors warband) and give them each a Treasure.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ and the Peasants attempt to Retreat. If they have become hostile to anyone, the Peasants continue to Retreat, but XYZ performs normal actions instead.
 
**Other Behaviours:** None.
### XYZ the Wandering Knight
*Agent:* _Human_ _Wandering Knight_

*Cost:* 55

This knight wanders about.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 9| 6| - | 16| 10| 7| 2 | 2| 0| 3| Mounted

This unit is equipped with a Pike. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Mounted
This unit cannot use ladders or make Climb Checks. It gains +3 Mov and +1 Wnd, which are already reflected in its stat block.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Place XYZ in the middle of a random board edge.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ moves towards the middle of the opposite board edge from where he started. If he ends the move within 10" of a unit, that unit must make a Morale Check. If the unit fails, XYZ becomes hostile toward that unit's warband and performs normal actions from this point onward. This check only needs to be made once per warband. Law warbands have Advantage on this Morale Check.
 
**Other Behaviours:** None.
## Law Faction Henchman
### City Guard
*Henchman:* _Human_ _City Guard_

*Cost:* 20

A guard of Blightmeer.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 12| - | 14| 10| 10| 1 | 1| 0| 0| 

This unit is equipped with a Spear and Shield. This is already included in the stat table above.

## Chaos Faction Agents
### XYZ the Vampire Count
*Agent:* _Vampire_ _Count_

*Cost:* 50

Big vamps

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 8| 14| - | 18| 10| 10| 2 | 2| 3| 0| Undead, Fear, Vampire

This unit is equipped with a Sword. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Undead
This unit may not Run, but may Engage as normal (ie. up to 1.5x of base Move). If this unit would be Stunned, it is instead counted as Dazed. This unit is immune to the Blight.
##### Fear
This unit causes Fear.
##### Vampire
If there is a non-Undead, non-Animal ally within 2" at the end of your Upkeep Phase and this unit has less than their maximum Wounds, you must immediately Incapacitate that ally to remove Staggered from this unit and gain one Wound.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** XYZ is hostile to everyone. Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ performs normal actions. Once he has Incapacitated a unit that is not Large, Undead, or an Animal, he will attempt to Retreat.
 
**Other Behaviours:** XYZ does not target Large, Undead, and Animal units. Willing to ally with Chaos warbands.
### XYZ the Blight Prophet
*Agent:* _Human_ _Blight Prophet_

*Cost:* 35

This self-proclaimed 'Prophet of the Blight God' has supposedly been sent by greater powers to spread the gift of the Blight to all who will listen, and to all who won't. Blah's sermons, and those of his followers, bring a sense of foreboding to all those unlucky enough to hear them.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 12| - | -| 10| 7| 3 | 1| 3| 0| Spread Blight (Major), Blight for the Blight God

This unit is equipped with Dual Swords. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Spread Blight (Major)
If this unit Incapacitates or is Incapacitated by an enemy in Melee, that unit must make a Morale Check. If they fail it, they immediately contract the Blight. This unit is immune to the Blight.
##### Blight for the Blight God
This unit is immune to the Blight. At the start of the game, select an ally unit that does not have the Blight. It contracts the Blight.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** XYZ and his Henchmen are hostile to everyone. Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit, with two Chaos Henchmen, one on each side of him. The triggering unit must make a Morale Check. If it fails, it contracts the Blight.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ and his Henchmen act as normal.
 
**Other Behaviours:** Willing to ally with Chaos warbands.
### XYZ the Rebel Captain
*Agent:* _Elf_ _Rebel Captain_

*Cost:* 40

This elf does stuff.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7| 9| - | 17| 6| 7| 2 | 1| 0| 0| Leap, Rally the Troops

This unit is equipped with a Spear. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Leap
This unit's max jump distance is increased by 3". It also has Advantage on Jump Across Checks.
##### Rally the Troops
Allied units within 5" of this unit can roll Morale Checks with Advantage. Rout Checks cannot gain Advantage in this way.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** XYZ is hostile to Law warbands. Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit, with one Chaos Henchmen either side of him. He is holding the Treasure.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ performs normal actions.
 
**Other Behaviours:** Willing to ally with Chaos and Underworld warbands.
### XYZ the Demon Lord
*Agent:* _Demon_ _Lord_

*Cost:* 70

This demon lord's motives are unknown.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 12| - | 9| 16| 7| 3 | 3| 4| 4| Large, Fear, Temporary Ally

This unit is equipped with a nothing, since it needs no weapons like puny mortals.. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Large
This unit may not be purchased at warband creation. It counts as two units for the purpose of Rout Checks. It cannot pick up Treasure. This unit is immune to the Blight. It cannot Promote.
##### Fear
This unit causes Fear.
##### Temporary Ally
This unit eventually becomes hostile to all other units. At the end of your Upkeep Phase, if at least one of your units was Incapacitated last turn, your Leader makes a Morale Check. On a failure, this unit becomes hostile. From now on, it will act during the Neutral Step of the next player's Upkeep Phase. It uses the usual rules for Neutral Units.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ performs normal actions. 
 
**Other Behaviours:** Willing to ally with Chaos warbands, although the 'Temporary Ally' rules will apply if they do.
### XYZ the Berserker
*Agent:* _Dwarf_ _Berserker_

*Cost:* 45

A terrifying berserker.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 5| 8| 14 | 14| 14| 7| 2 | 1| 3| 3| Hard to Kill, Berserker, Fear

This unit is equipped with a Great Axe. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Hard to Kill
This unit has a -2 to Injury rolls made against it (eg. an unmodified roll of 19 would count as a 17, Stunning rather than Incapacitating the unit).
##### Berserker
At the end of the Engage Phase, if there is an enemy within Line-of-Sight and Engage range, this unit attempts to Engage the closest such unit.
##### Fear
This unit causes Fear.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** XYZ is hostile to everyone. Place XYZ at the nearest board edge.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ performs normal actions.
 
**Other Behaviours:** Willing to ally with Chaos warbands.
## Chaos Faction Henchman
### Blightchosen
*Henchman:* _Human_ _Blightchosen_

*Cost:* 20

A faithful servant of the Blight.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 14| - | 18| 10| 10| 1 | 1| 3| 0| Spread Blight (Minor)

This unit is equipped with Dual Swords. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Spread Blight (Minor)
If this unit Incapacitates an enemy in Melee, that unit must make a Morale Check. If they fail it, they immediately contract the Blight. This unit is immune to the Blight. If this unit is Incapacitated in Melee, nothing happens.
## Underworld Faction Agents
### Snikit the Master Assassin
*Agent:* _Ratling_ _Master Assassin_

*Cost:* 45

Some say Snikit went mad after being hit in the head with a stray projectile. Others say he went mad after cracking his skull on a slippery sewer floor. Either way, this crazy Ratling rules the Assassins Guild with an iron claw (when he's lucid enough).

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 8| 12| - | 18| 6| 10| 4 | 1| 3| 0| Stupor

This unit is equipped with Dual Fighting Claws. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Stupor
When this unit attempts to Engage, make a Morale Check. On a failure, the Engage fails and the unit moves 5" away from the target.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Snikit is hostile to everyone. Place Snikit 1" away from the triggering unit. He makes a Morale Check. On a success, Snikit Engages the unit that picked up the Treasure.
 
**Neutral Turn:** Snikit performs normal actions. He makes Morale Checks for Stupor when attempting to Engage.
 
**Other Behaviours:** Snikit Disengages at the end of every Melee Combat.
### XYZ the Bounty Hunter
*Agent:* _Human_ _Bounty Hunter_

*Cost:* 40

The most feared Bounty Hunter in Blightmeer. XYZ rushes from the shadows and captures her targets before they're aware she's even there.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 12| 12 | 18| 10| 10| 2 | 1| 0| 4| Disengage, Bounty Hunter

This unit is equipped with Dual Hammers. This is already included in the stat table above.

| Ranged Weapon | Rng | Inj | Prc | Special Rules |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------ |
| Blowpipe | 15" | -3 | 0 | Precise |
##### Precise 
Opponent cannot make Defence Checks when hit.
##### Disengage
At the end of your Upkeep Phase, if this unit is Engaged it may make a Morale Check. If it succeeds, it may move 1" to get out of the Engage. It may not Engage this turn.
##### Bounty Hunter
At the start of the game, select an enemy hero at random to be the target. This unit may not Engage, Intercept, or make Ranged Attacks against any other units until the target is Incapacitated. If Engaged, this unit will fight back as usual. This unit has Advantage on attacks against the target. When the target is Incapacitated, it drops a Treasure as if it was holding one.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Place XYZ on the nearest board edge. The triggering unit is the target for the purposes of the 'Bounty Hunter' skill.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ moves toward the target, Engaging if possible, otherwise making a Ranged Attack if possible. Once her target is Incapacitated, she will attempt to Retreat.
 
**Other Behaviours:** XYZ uses her Disengage skill at the start of her turn if she is not Engaged with her target.
### XYZ the Thief
*Agent:* _Elvish_ _Thief_

*Cost:* 35

Frustratingly agile, XYZ is always one step ahead of everyone else. A thief notorious amongst the nobility, she is the mastermind behind numerous high-profile heists.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7| 13| - | 18| 6| 7| 1 | 1| 0| 0| Leap, Agile, Thief

This unit is equipped with a Dagger. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Leap
This unit's max jump distance is increased by 3". It also has Advantage on Jump Across Checks.
##### Agile
This unit gets Advantage on all Climb checks.
##### Thief
This unit may pick up Treasure, even when it is contested.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit. She is holding the Treasure. She immediately makes a Move action toward the nearest board edge.
 
**Neutral Turn:** XYZ attempts to Retreat.
 
**Other Behaviours:** XYZ will attempt any Agility Check that shortens the path to the nearest board edge.
### XYZ the Shady Merchant
*Agent:* _Human_ _Shady Merchant_

*Cost:* 40

This shady mercant can procure goods for you, for a fee.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 16| 16 | 18| 10| 10| 1 | 1| 0| 0| Fence

This unit is equipped with a Dagger. This is already included in the stat table above.

| Ranged Weapon | Rng | Inj | Prc | Special Rules |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------ |
| Crossbow | 30" | 2 | 0 | Long Reload |
##### Long Reload 
You may not use this weapon if it was fired in the previous turn.
##### Fence
If this unit ends the game with a Treasure, the player can forgo rolling for Income for this Treasure. If they do so, roll on the Loot table and gain that Loot.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit, with one Underworld Henchmen either side of him. He is holding the Treasure.
 
**Neutral Turn:** If either of the henchmen start their turn next to a Treasure, they pick it up, even if another unit is contesting it. Then XYZ and his Henchmen move towards the nearest unclaimed Treasure. If they become hostile, they instead act as normal.
 
**Other Behaviours:** If XYZ and his henchmen each have a Treasure (or are Incapacitated), they will attempt to Retreat, even if they are hostile. If one of XYZ's henchmen does not have a Treasure and a non-hostile unit from an Underworld warband ends its Move within 2" of them, it can give up the Treasure it's holding to that henchman. If the unit does so, that unit's warband can roll on the Loot table at the end of the game.
### XYZ the Necromancer
*Agent:* _Human_ _Necromancer_

*Cost:* 45

A filthy necromancer.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 14| 14 | 18| 10| 10| 1 | 1| 0| 0| Raise Ally, Unholy Presence

This unit is equipped with a Dagger. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Raise Ally
This unit can cast the 'Raise Ally' spell: One allied unit that was Incapacitated after the end of your last turn immediately returns to the battle as a Zombie (use the same stats as the Undead warband Zombie). It no longer counts towards your Rout Threshold. Place the model within 5" of the Caster. The model cannot be placed such that it is Engaged with an enemy.
##### Unholy Presence
Any allies of this unit have Disadvantage on all Morale Checks.
#### *Event Rules*
**Immediately:** XYZ and his Zombies are hostile to everyone. Place XYZ 1" away from the triggering unit. He is holding the Treasure. Place two Zombies, one on either side of him. XYZ immediately moves so that he maximises the distance between himself and the closest enemy.
 
**Neutral Turn:** All Zombies act as normal. A Zombie is then summoned next to XYZ. Finally, XYZ moves so that he maximises the distance between himself and the closest enemy.
 
**Other Behaviours:** Willing to ally with Underworld warbands.
## Underworld Faction Henchman
### Gang Member
*Henchman:* _Ratling_ _Gang Member_

*Cost:* 20

Outcast by society, Ratlings are forced into the edges of Blightmeer where they make ends meet by any means necessary. This incentivises them to skirt the law and find creative ways to feed themselves and their families.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 8| 15| - | 18| 8| 16| 2 | 1| 0| 4| 

This unit is equipped with Dual Clubs. This is already included in the stat table above.

## Special Faction Agents
### XYZ the Pit Fighter
*Agent:* _Human_ _Pit Fighter_

*Cost:* -

The current champion of the Pits, this person's presence is preceded by the chanting of their adoring fans.

| Mov | Mel | Rgd | Def | Agi | Mrl | Atk | Wnd | Prc | Inj | Skills |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6| 12| - | 16| 10| 7| 3 | 1| 3| 0| Pit Fighter

This unit is equipped with Dual Axes. This is already included in the stat table above.

##### Pit Fighter
This unit treats Dazed results against it as Staggered instead.
#### *Event Rules*
#### If the Pit Fighter was originally a member of the triggering unit's warband:
 
**Immediately:** You found your old ally in the Pits. Time to break them out! Place the Pit Fighter 1" away from the triggering unit. Place four Fans (use the Peasant stat block from the Inquisitors warband) in a rough circle surrounding the Pit Fighter and the triggering unit. The Pit Fighter immediately comes under the control of the triggering unit's warband and the Fans are immediately hostile to that warband.
 
**Neutral Turn:** The Fans act as normal.
 
**Other Behaviours:** At the end of the game, the Pit Fighter returns to its original warband. The original, neutral Pit Fighter returns to become the new Pit Fighter.
 
#### Otherwise:
 
**Immediately:** Your unit stumbled into a Pit Fight! Place the Pit Fighter 1" away from the triggering unit. Give it an additional Treasure (in addition to the one that the triggering unit picked up). Place four Fans (use the Peasant stat block from the Inquisitors warband) in a rough circle surrounding the Pit Fighter and the triggering unit.
 
**Neutral Turn:** The Pit Fighter performs normal actions, targeting the triggering unit. The Fans do nothing, unless they have become hostile to someone (then they act as normal).
 
**Other Behaviours:** If the triggering unit moves away from the Pit Fighter before the Pit Fighter is Incapacitated, the Pit Fighter and Fans become hostile toward the warband of that unit.
 
**End of the Pit Fight:** If the Pit Fighter Incapacitates the triggering unit, they do nothing from then on (unless they have become hostile to a warband, then they target that warband). At the end of the game, if the triggering unit was a hero, it becomes the Pit Fighter, otherwise it dies. If the triggering unit Incapacitates the Pit Fighter, the Fans come under the triggering player's control for the rest of the battle.
