---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: Special Scenarios List
---
# Special Scenarios List

## Law vs Chaos Scenarios

### The Blight

*The forces of Chaos are trying to spread the Blight throughout the district. It's up to the forces of the Law to contain it.*

**Law Faction Objective:** Protect the bystanders while they retreat

**Chaos Faction Objective:** Spread the Blight by Incapacitating the bystanders in Melee

**Map:** Dense City

**Deployment:** Deploy as normal with the Law side choosing the edge to deploy on and deploying first. Eight Bystanders are then set up along the same board edge. They are all 6" in from the board edge and are evenly spaced along it (so they are 4" away from each other and the two on each end are 4" away from the side board edges).

**Turn Order:** Law, Chaos, Neutral

**Rout Threshold:** Warband Rout Threshold + 3

**Game End Treasure:** Law gains one Treasure for every Bystander that Retreats or would have Retreated if they had taken another turn. Chaos gains one Treasure for every Bystander Incapacitated.

**Special Rules:**

*Bystanders*: There are eight Bystanders set up at the start of the game. Each turn, they Retreat towards the Chaos player's starting board edge. They have 6" Move and no Defence. They do not fight back in Melee and automatically Disengage at the start of their turn. They are Neutral to the Law player and Hostile to the Chaos player.

If they would be Incapacitated outside of Melee, they are Stunned instead. For every Bystander that is Incapacitated, this lowers the Law player's Rout Threshold by 1. Incapacitated Bystanders do not give Improvements. For every Bystander that successfully Retreats from the board, this lowers the Chaos player's Rout Threshold by 1.

*Faction Agents:* At the end of the Upkeep Phase, a Faction Agent may target a Bystander within 15" and make a Morale Check. On a success, the Faction Agent's player may move the Bystander 3" in any direction. This may not cause an Agility Check.



## Chaos vs Underworld Scenarios

### Coup

*Faction Agents of both sides try to depose each other to gain power.*

**Chaos Faction Objective:** Incapacitate the Underworld Faction Agent while allowing their own Faction Agent to Retreat

**Underworld Faction Objective:** Incapacitate the Chaos Faction Agent while allowing their own Faction Agent to Retreat

**Map:** Two parallel streets in dense city with the centre of each street 9" from the closest board edge (see diagram).

**Deployment:** Roll to determine deployment order as normal. The first player sets up within 2" of either of the board edges where the streets start/finish. The player places their Faction Agent along the board edge so that it's in the middle of one of the two streets. The second player sets up within 2" of the opposite board edge, then places their Faction Agent along the board edge so that it's in the middle of the other of the two streets.

**Turn Order:** First player's Faction Agent, first player, second player's Faction Agent, second player

**Rout Threshold:** Warband Rout Threshold + 3

**Game End Treasure:** If a player's Faction Agent successfully Retreats, they gain 3 Treasure. If a player's Faction Agent is Incapacitated, their opponent gains 3 Treasure.

**Special Rules:**

*Faction Agents:* Players do not have direct control over their Faction Agent during the battle. Instead, before each player's turn (including the first one), each Faction Agent moves along the street towards the opposite board edge from where they started, Retreating towards that point. Faction Agents will always Disengage from Melee at the start of their turn. If they have Ranged Weapons, they can use it.

If a Faction Agent successfully Retreats, it lowers the opponent's Rout Threshold by 3. If a Faction Agent is Incapacitated, it lowers their ally's Rout Threshold by 3 (rather than the usual 1).

*Demon Lord:* Should the Chaos player have the Demon Lord as their Faction Agent, it will have the Temporary Ally special rule as normal. If it becomes Hostile to the Chaos warband, it will stop Retreating and make Normal Actions for the rest of the game instead.


## Underworld vs Law Scenarios

### Jailbreak

*The Underworld Faction has just broken their Faction Agent out of jail. The alarm has been raised, but can the Law Faction catch them in time?*

Underworld Faction Objective: Have their Faction Agent Retreat

Law Faction Objective: Capture the Underworld Faction Agent

Map: Dense City with a jail in the middle.

Deployment: Four Hooded Figures are placed directly in the centre of the board. The Underworld warband deploys around them and within 5" of the centre of the board. The Law warband deploys within 2" of all board edges. Neither side deploys their Faction Agents at the beginning of the game.

**Turn Order:** Neutral, Underworld, Law

**Rout Threshold:** Warband Rout Threshold + 3

**Game End Treasure:** If the Underworld Faction Agent successfully Retreats, they gain 3 Treasure. If the Underworld Faction Agent is Incapacitated, their opponent gains 3 Treasure.

Special Rules:

*Hooded Figures:* The Underworld warband has four Hooded Figures, which are Neutral units. Chosen randomly, one of these is the Underworld Faction Agent. This information is secret to both players. After each Underworld player turn, each one Retreats towards a different corner of the board. They have Move 6 and have no Defence. Hooded Figures are Neutral to all factions. If Hooded Figures would be Incapacitated outside of Melee, they are Stunned instead. 

*Revealing Hooded Figures:* When a Law unit is within 5" and Line-of-Sight of a Hooded Figure, it is immediately revealed whether it is the Faction Agent or not. If it's not, it drops a Treasure Token where it was and is removed from the board.

Whenever it becomes certain what identity the remaining Hooded Figures are (either because it must be the Faction Agent or because the Faction Agent is revealed), the remaining Hooded Figures are revealed. Should a Hooded Figure successfully Retreat off of any corner, it is revealed but no Treasure Token is placed.

*Revealing the Faction Agent:* When the Underworld Faction Agent is revealed, it becomes controllable by the Underworld player (unless it has already Retreated). When this happens, the Law player immediately places their Faction Agent anywhere on a board edge, then places two Faction Henchman either side of it (these Henchman are in addition to any that may have been hired by the player).

The Underworld Faction Agent can Retreat off of any corner once it is revealed. If it successfully Retreats at any point, it reduces the Law player's Rout Threshold by 3. Should it be Incapacitated, it reduces the Underworld player's Rout Threshold by 3.

The Faction Agents may or may not be able to act on their next turn (or the current turn) depending on when the Underworld Faction Agent was revealed. Use the table below to determine when they can next act.

| Reveal Turn | Underworld FA           | Law FA                  |
| ----------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Neutral     | No actions on next turn | Can act as normal       |
| Underworld  | No actions this turn    | No actions on next turn |
| Law         | Can act as normal       | No actions on this turn |


## Law vs Chaos vs Underworld Scenarios

### Secure the Artifact

***Coming Soon!***

*Description*

**Law Faction Objective:**

**Chaos Faction Objective:**

**Underworld Faction Objective:**

**Map:**

**Deployment:**

**Turn Order:**

**Rout Threshold:**

**Special Rules:**

