---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Equipment

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section will change prior to the start of alpha playtesting.
:::
## Stat Checks
For checks, you need to be equal to or greater than your stat to pass. So lower stats are better (besides Attacks, Wounds, Injury, and Piercing) and higher rolls are always better.

In Speedheim, each unit has the following stats:

| Stat     | Description                                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Movement | How far a unit can move in inches under normal conditions.                                                                                                                      |
| Melee    | Roll equal to or higher in order to successfully attack in melee.                                                                                                               |
| Ranged   | Roll equal to or higher in order to successfully attack from ranged.                                                                                                            |
| Defence  | Roll equal to or higher in order to successfully prevent a unit from taking a wound.                                                                                            |
| Wounds   | Number of hits a unit can take before they are injured.                                                                                                                         |
| Agility  | Roll equal to or higher in order to successfully jump, climb and prevent falling damage. Agility also determines who can attack first in melee after the first round of combat. |
| Attacks  | The number of attacks the unit has in melee.                                                                                                                                    |
| Morale   | Roll equal to or higher in order to prevent your warband from succumbing to fear or routing when units are lost.                                                                |
| Injury   | A modifier that is added to your Melee Check result when calculating Injury.                                                                                                    |
| Piercing | A modifier that affects enemy defence checks when attacking.                                                                                                                    |

### Advantage / Disadvantage
There is the concept of Advantage and Disadvantage. If you have Advantage on a check, you roll 2d20 and take the higher of the two values. If you have Disadvantage, you roll 2d20 and take the lower of the two values.

### Piercing modifiers
Every positive point of Piercing reduces the opponent’s Defence by 1. Every negative point of Piercing improves the opponent’s Defence by 1.

### Injury modifiers
A positive Injury modifier will increase the Melee/Ranged roll you made by that amount for the purposes of injury only (not whether you hit or not). Likewise, a negative Injury modifier will decrease the Melee/Ranged roll you made by that amount for the purposes of injury.

## Injury
Whenever someone is Injured, see the following table for the result. This is used for both Melee  and Ranged Attacks.

| Attack d20 Roll | Result        |
| --------------- | ------------- |
| 1-11            | Dazed         |
| 12-14           | Dazed         |
| 15-17           | Stunned       |
| 18-20           | Incapacitated |


### Injury Rolls

Sometimes the rules call for an 'Injury Roll', which works a little different to calculating Injury above. This Roll is called for when resolving Falling, for many Spells, and for some other instances.

Players will often be asked to make an Injury Roll with certain Modifiers. These Modifiers are added to (or sometimes subtracted from) the roll, making the roll more deadly (or sometimes less).

For example, if a unit fell 3" from the top of a building, the Modifier would be +2 (as per the Falling rules). If a player rolled a d20 and got 13 as the result, the unit would be Stunned (as 13 + 2 = 15).
#### Injury Roll Table

| d20 Roll | Result        |
| -------- | ------------- |
| 1-11     | No Effect     |
| 12-14    | Dazed         |
| 15-17    | Stunned       |
| 18-20    | Incapacitated |

### Staggered
Staggered units can move or engage at half speed (so roll Out-of-Sight as normal, but the unit can then only move half the rolled distance). It can otherwise shoot, cast, or attack in melee. However, they will roll all Checks with Disadvantage until the end of the current turn. During their opponent's turn, they will no longer have Disadvantage.
### Dazed
A Dazed unit cannot do anything except move 1"
* If a Dazed unit is in Melee Combat it may use its 1" of Move to Disengage from combat.
	* It may only do so if all enemies it is in base contact with are also in base contact with at least one ally of the Dazed unit and that ally is not Stunned or Dazed itself
- If a Dazed warrior suffers a wound in Melee they are automatically taken out of action.
- All close combat attacks against this unit hit automatically.
- The Dazed unit may still roll for Defense as per normal.
- Dazed units will become Staggered in the controlling player’s next Upkeep phase.

### Stunned
A Stunned unit cannot do anything.
- If a Stunned unit suffers a wound in melee they are automatically taken out of action.
- Close combat attacks hit automatically.
- All attacks wound automatically.
- Stunned units have no defence saves.
- Stunned warriors will recover to Dazed in the controlling player’s next Upkeep phase.

### Incapacitated
This unit is removed from the board and will have to roll for Scars after this game.

### Falling damage
When falling, simply roll on the Injury chart. For every extra full inch above 2” that the unit falls from, add +2 to the Injury roll. A roll of 1-11 has no effect.

### Becoming Dazed or Stunned Next to a Ledge
A warrior that is dazed or stunned within 1” of an elevated edge must pass one Agility test or fall to the ground below, taking falling damage.
- Warriors will not fall off edges that have railings, low walls, etc. on all sides.

### Targeting units dazed or stunned in melee
You may only target a unit in melee when they are dazed or stunned if you are engaged with no other units that are able to fight back.

### Attacking a unit that is dazed or stunned
See the table below for resolving whether someone is Incapacitated through Close Combat attacks on Stunned/Dazed:

| Status  | How To Incapacitate                                         |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| Dazed   | Melee check with Advantage, Defence check as normal         |
| Stunned | Incapacitated automatically (but costs one attack to do so) |

### When a hero takes out any unit
Heroes that take out enemy units gain one experience point.

### When a henchmen takes out any unit
Immediately roll on the table below. If they succeed they will become a hero after this scenario. They retain their experience and immediately gain one level up. If they are Incapacitated this scenario roll on the Hero Scars chart instead of the Henchman Scars chart.

| Henchmen OOA hero   | 18+ |
| ------------------- | --- |
| Henchmen OOA leader | 15+ |

## Critical Hits
If as part of any attack a unit rolls a natural 20 on the dice it becomes a critical hit! Treat this as if you had rolled two 20s (so your opponent will need to perform a Defense Check against each roll).