---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Unit Types

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section will change prior to the start of alpha playtesting.
:::


There are many unit
## Heroes & Henchman

Every warband has choices for hiring both heroes and henchman. While henchman are cheaper and often more cost efficient, they do not become stronger over time and are more vulnerable to death. The only way they can do so is by being Promoted to a hero through heroic deeds in battle.

Heroes meanwhile do grow over time. They become stronger via Improvement whenever they Incapacitate an enemy or survive a battle. This may even include gaining extra Attacks or Wounds. While henchman are limited to the Skills they have (if they have any at all), Heroes can actually learn new Skills, changing how they play during games.

Heroes are also able to shrug off Incapacitation more easily compared to henchman and are less likely to die from Scars or from the Plague. Heroes can also equip Loot, Consumables or Magic Items that will help them during a game.

While only hiring henchman may help in the short-term, they will quickly become weaker relative to their heroic counterparts. As a general recommendation, players should buy three heroes at warband creation, unless they have very specific reasons not to.

### Leaders

## Casters

Casters fall into one of two categories, Arcane or Divine. No matter the type of Caster, they can choose one Spell from the relevant spell list to learn upon being hired.
### Arcane Spellcasters

Arcane Spellcasters have the following special rules:

* They have an innate 'Basic' spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt
* They only have a single weapon slot, which must be a melee weapon
* They cannot use armour or a shield

### Divine Spellcasters

Divine Spellcasters have the following special rules:

* They have the usual three weapon slots
* They can use armour and shields as normal


## Other Types


### Large Units


### Animals


### Undead