---
sidebar_position: 6
---
# Casting

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section will change prior to the start of alpha playtesting.
:::

Spellcasters fall into one of two categories, Arcane or Divine. No matter the type of spellcaster, they can choose one spell from the relevant spell list to learn upon being hired.
#### Arcane Spellcasters

Arcane Spellcasters have the following special rules:
* They have an innate 'Basic' spell that is always castable and is in addition to other spells learnt
* They only have a single weapon slot, which must be a melee weapon
* They cannot use armour or a shield

#### Divine Spellcasters

Divine Spellcasters have the following special rules:
* They have the usual three weapon slots
* They can use armour and shields as normal

## Spell Types

### Basic Spells

osidjfodjsi

### Ongoing Spells

There are a certain type of spells known as 'Ongoing Spells'. These spells remain in effect once Cast, but a Morale Check is required at the start of each of the caster's player's turns. If it fails, the spell ends, otherwise it remains in effect.

The caster cannot have multiple instances of the same Ongoing Spell in effect at the same time, but can have different Ongoing Spells in effect at the same time.

If the Caster is Stunned or Incapacitated, the Ongoing Spell immediately ends.

### Cast Attacks

A Cast Attack is a specific type of Spell, with standard ways to handle its resolution. Other Spells may also deal damage to opponents, but may not do so in the same way, instead being described in the Spell Description as usual.

A Cast Attack has a Cast Difficulty as normal. Should a Caster pass the Cast Check for this spell, the roll of the Cast Check is also used as the result for the Attack Injury Roll, similarly to Melee or Ranged Attacks. Also similarly, the opponent makes a Defence Check. Casters cannot Cast Attack into Melee Combats, except those they are Engaged in themselves.

While this is similar to a Ranged Attack, Cast Attacks gain a number of benefits that Ranged Attacks do not. Cast Attacks have the usual penalty for Running and Casting (with a +2 to the Cast Difficulty), but they do not otherwise get penalised for Moving or for their target being in Cover. They can be used after Running or while Engaged, just as any other spell and can target someone that they are not Engaged with.