---
sidebar_position: 6
---
# Treasure


While the rules for Treasure are explained in detail in the Game Rules section, Treasure is an important objective within the game and deserves an overview of how it functions.

## Treasure Tokens

Treasure is represented by Treasure Tokens placed on the board prior to the start of the game. One of the primary objectives of a warband during battle is to pick up these Treasure Tokens, claiming them for their warband.

This gives the benefit of providing Income (and potentially even Loot) for the warband (should a unit retain the Treasure Token until the end of the game) but also demoralises opponents, potentially causing them to Rout and lose the game earlier than they normally would.

### Picking Up Treasure Tokens

Picking up Treasure tokens is done at the start of each turn and only if there are no enemies nearby. Units can only carry one Treasure token and may not Run while doing so. Picking up Treasure tokens can be fraught with danger, as they may also trigger Events or Plague Checks.

When the game ends, players also check to see if their warbands pick up any remaining Treasure, in a [last effort before retreating](/docs/Game%20Rules/Upkeep%20Phase). The winner of the game is more likely to pick up Treasure in this way.
## Income & Loot

If a unit is carrying Treasure tokens at the end of the game (whether or not they won or lost), this is combined into a pool of Treasure that the warband gained. The winner also earns an additional Treasure token. At this point, rolls are made to determine how much Income is earned from the Treasure tokens.

Particularly good rolls mean that the Treasure contains Loot in addition to Income. Loot comes in the form of Consumables and Magic Items, both of which can be equipped to heroes in future games.


