---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Playing a Campaign

Playing a campaign is the intended way to experience the game. During it, warbands start as small and weak forces with dreams of fame, glory, or whatever else may motivate them. They may succeed, fail into total ruin, or somewhere in between.

A campaign, like a good narrative, should have a distinct start, middle, and end. It should (hopefully!) have finish with a satisfying climax, with all warbands having the potential to achieve at least some small victory up until the last moment.

After creating the campaign, factions, and warbands, it's time to begin the campaign! For any individual player, the general loop of a campaign will be as follows:

1. Play a game
2. Complete post-game phase
3. Play a game against someone else
4. Complete post-game phase

And so on until players reach the end of the campaign. There are exceptions, with Special Scenarios occurring periodically at major points through the campaign. The final scenario will always be a Special Scenario for all players, after which any post-campaign results and narratives will be tied off.

The length of the campaign the group decided on determines where these Special Scenarios occur. For example, for a medium-length, six-player campaign, there are 12 games in total. The schedule is as follows:

| Round | Description                         |
| ----- | ----------------------------------- |
| 1-5   | Play against each other player once |
| 6     | Mid-campaign Special Scenario       |
| 7-11  | Play against each other player once |
| 12    | Special Scenario finale             |

The Special Scenario may be against a player you played against recently, but will have special rules and more explicit narrative elements involving Factions. Special Scenarios will be described in more detail in the next section.

Handle each game as per the Pre-Game and Game rules. After any game, including the campaign finale, handle post game as per the Post-Game rules.

## Deciding opponents

We don't prescribe any specific way to decide on who a player's next opponent should be, but we do have general guidelines that help keep a campaign as enjoyable as possible for all involved. 

* Players should play all other players as evenly as possible
* You should space a player's opponents out as much as possible
* A player's next opponent should be as random as possible
* Where practical, players shouldn't know who their next opponent is when completing their post-game

This keeps variety high and the campaign feeling fresh. This generally happens in a 'round robin' format, where every player completes a game against every other player (decided randomly) before repeating the cycle, but could be in other formats too.

Life inevitably gets in the way, with a player unable to make it to a session, or one game running longer than the others during a larger session, requiring the opponent of one of those players to wait. For this reason, we recommend being flexible. Have a general schedule in mind, but we willing to deviate. When deviating, try to avoid the guidelines above where possible. Avoid two players playing consecutive games against each other though, even if that might mean delaying games.


## Winning Games

While it may seem obvious that players want to win games during a campaign, it's worth pointing out the ways in which winning games actually aids them, so they can better understand how this changes the trajectory of their warband across a campaign. When winning, a player:

* Gains an extra Treasure at the end of the game
* Generally gains more Treasure during the game
* Generally sustains fewer dead and Scarred units
* Generally gains more Improvements and Promotions
* Is able to better influence the Special Scenario they play and who they play it against
* Gains rewards for Special Scenarios

All of this ultimately improves your chance to win the campaign finale, ultimately winning the campaign itself.

## Campaign Finale

Once all of the regular games have been played out, the Campaign Finale begins. The Finale may be a single game, or may be 2 or even 3 games, depending on how players wish to handle it and how many players there are. We suggest the approach below, but groups can tailor it to best suit them.

Before any games are played, if the current Pit Fighter is part of a warband, then a Pit Fight occurs. Once the finale has begun, any results of 'Pit Fight' on the Hero Scars table are treated as 'Nothing Happens'.

First, if there is more than one player in a Faction, a single regular battle is played between all players of the same Faction. The winner of that battle is then chosen as the representative of the Faction in the finale Special Scenario. No Faction Points are given in this battle, so players with more wins will generally have an advantage over those that don't.

For example: In a campaign with 5 players, with two Law, two Chaos, and one Underworld player, the Underworld Player immediately advances to the final Special Scenario, while the two Law players must face off against each other, with only the winner advancing to the final Special Scenario (similar for the two Chaos players).

<!--
JP 4-4-26: I'm worried that we actually need to give a bonus for the player with the most wins here, otherwise players may be incentivised to intentionally lose throughout the campaign, then throw their Faction Units they get from losing into the fray every game to minimise losses but still make sure they lose. This would likely mean they would end up ahead economically of players that played to try and win each game.

Maybe faction points are actually reversed in this game, so the player with more wins gets more points? But maybe both sides do indeed get the usual free 50 Faction Points, but there are no special rules? I won't to make sure the side with more wins is favoured, but I don't want it to be certain defeat for the player with more losses, otherwise there is no point in having the game at all.
-->

For the final Special Scenario, the final player of each faction face of in a 1v1v1. The exact scenario should have been chosen at the start of the campaign. The winner of this Special Scenario is the overall winner of the campaign!

For the final scenario, you have the option of the losers of the previous match controlling some units, such as the Faction Units of the player that they lost against. This allows players to stay engaged during the finale, while also speeding the game up.

Again, how exactly you end a campaign is up to the group, but we recommend against playing too many additional games that would exclude part of the group. In addition, even if a player is doing poorly, they should have the opportunity to complete their warband's goal, even if the chance of doing so is small.

## Multiple Games in a Day

It's often practical (and more fun!) to have everyone come to a single location and play multiple games in a day, with games amongst all players running concurrently. If you plan on doing this, we recommend doing a few things, assuming they work for your specific group.
### Terrain Set Up

Try to make sure the terrain is at the location before the day, so that one or two players can get the tables set up before others arrive. Have players rotate through tables throughout the day as much as possible. There will inevitably be some people that will play on the same board multiple times. If that's the case, their opponents should try and accommodate them by agreeing to re-roll if they end up with the same deployment type, or agree to avoid choices that would have them set up in the same location as a previous game.

### Create a Schedule

If this works for your group, create a schedule for the day, stating which players will be playing each other and in what order. Although this gives players foresight when performing post-game steps, this is outweighed by the fact that it reduces everyone's mental load and allows fairer scheduling. As previously mentioned, do be willing to adjust the schedule on the day if something comes up.

### Handling Post-Game

Where possible, each player should have a basic plan for their post-game phase, such as Skills they may want heroes to learn, or what shiny new unit or piece of equipment they are thinking of buying. Naturally, these plans will change with the roll of the dice, but it will hopefully save some time during the post-game, which may even allow players to fit an extra game in.

<!--
JP 28-10-25:
Not sure about the last point, but I think the others work well.
-->


## Retiring Warbands

It is possible that, after a string of bad losses, a warband may find itself in a weaker position than when it started the campaign. Should this happen, a player may decide to retire their entire warband.

Should they do so, they create a warband from scratch, following the Warband Creation rules to create a new warband of the same type as the one being retired. They remain aligned with the same Faction and retain any existing Wins or Losses they had. If the player wishes, they can reuse the names and choices they made during their initial warband creation. This is usually simpler.

Warband retirement during the first few games tends to be rare, and is even rarer after the first few games. Even if a warband may fall behind temporarily in terms of units, gaining Improvements on their heroes or gaining extra Hero Slots means it is usually not worth retiring a warband. Warband retirement should be considered a last resort for a warband that has no hope of being able to come back from debilitating losses.