---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Special Scenarios

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section will change prior to the start of alpha playtesting.
:::

Special Scenarios represent milestones within a campaign. A campaign generally has 1-3 Special Scenarios. There will always be 1 Special Scenario for the campaign finale, plus 1-2 Special Scenarios spaced evenly throughout the rest of the campaign.


## Determine Campaign Special Scenarios

At the start of the campaign, the group should decide on what Special Scenarios will be played during the campaign. They should do this collectively, deciding on enough Special Scenarios to cover

<!--
JP 04-11-25: Add more here. Give an intro to the section.l
-->

Special Scenarios are in three groups:

* Law vs Chaos
* Chaos vs Underworld
* Underworld vs Law
* All Factions

These groups represent which Factions will partake in each scenario. So a 'Law vs Chaos' Special Scenario will be fought by one Law Faction warband and one Chaos Faction warband. For 'All Factions' Special Scenarios, this represents a Scenario that is played by three players, with one from each Faction. This is generally for handling uneven player counts.

<!--
JP 04-11-25: Add more here. Talk about how you need to use the structure below to assign scenarios.
-->

### Special Scenario Game Structure

Whenever it is time for the group to play a Special Scenario, use the table below. To use the table, refer to the row corresponding to the total number of players in your group. 

Example: If you have 5 Players, refer to the row with Total Players equal to 5.

Now, order the assign the Factions to A, B, and C based on how many players are in each faction. Faction A should have the most players and Faction C should have the least.

Example: If your 5 Player group has 1 Law Player, 2 Chaos Players, and 2 Underworld Players, assign Faction A to Chaos, Faction B to Underworld and Faction C to Law.

At this point you can determine the structure of the exact games.

Example: Following above, this means there would be 1 'All Factions' Special Scenario and 1 Chaos vs Underworld Special Scenario.

#### Special Scenario Table

| Total Players | Faction A | Faction B | Faction C | A vs B | B vs C | C vs A | All Factions |
| ------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------------ |
| 2             | 1         | 1         | 0         | 1      | 0      | 0      | 0            |
| 3             | 1         | 1         | 1         | 0      | 0      | 0      | 1            |
| 4             | 2         | 1         | 1         | 1      | 0      | 1      | 0            |
| 5             | 2         | 2         | 1         | 1      | 0      | 0      | 1            |
| 6             | 2         | 2         | 2         | 1      | 1      | 1      | 0            |
| 7             | 3         | 2         | 2         | 1      | 1      | 0      | 1            |
| 8             | 3         | 3         | 2         | 2      | 1      | 1      | 0            |
4-player rule: If Faction B or C are higher in Wins than both Faction A players, they can choose their Faction A opponent.

For higher player counts, simply use as many 6 player groupings as possible and then refer to the appropriate row for the number of remaining players.

For example, for 10 players you would combine the 6 player and 4 player rows (but don't use the special 4-player rule above). So there would be 2 A vs B games, 1 B vs C game and 2 C vs A games.


<!--
JP 04-11-25: Add more here. Summarising that this is the end of campaign setup.
-->

## Choosing Special Scenarios

When it comes time to actually play a Special Scenarios,
hich players play which Special Scenarios needs to be determined. For lower player counts, certain players may only have a single choice, but for higher player counts well-performing players have the ability to influence their opponents.

Should there be a number of options available

<!--
JP 04-11-25: Add more here.
-->

## Special Scenario Rules

The exact details of the Special Scenarios are listed in the Special Scenarios List. There are however some rules that apply to all Special Scenarios.

### Routing

Due to the important nature of these scenarios, a warband's rout threshold is increased by 2. In addition, there may be other ways to force your opponent to make rout checks via special objectives. These will be described within the Special Scenario.

### Faction Support

Everyone gets 50g of Faction Support to spend.

As usual, there is a cap of 4 Faction Units per warband.

<!--
JP 04-11-25: Add more here.
-->

### Rewards

osidjfdso

<!--
JP 04-11-25: Add more here.
-->


## Campaign Finale

lsikdjfdljksf
<!--
JP 04-11-25: Add more here.
-->
