---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# Update Warband

## Resolve Promotions

If a henchman Promoted during the previous battle, resolve it.

1. If this henchman's promotion would put you above six heroes, you must either immediately retire an existing hero otherwise the henchman does not Promote.
2. Remove the newly Promoted hero from the henchman slot they were in.
3. Add them to a spare hero slot, retaining their existing unit type. If they had the Plague before, they still have it, so mark that checkbox.
	1. If this puts you above the number of hero slots currently available to your warband, increase the number of hero slots this warband has by one (to a maximum of six).
4. Change the new hero's stats to the values for that unit type listed in the promotion table found in the warband's rules. This may even cause the new hero's stats to be lower in certain circumstances.
5. Using the same promotion table entry, add or remove any Skills or Special Rules as listed.

Note that even if a unit is promoted to a hero, this does not lower the number of that type of unit currently in the warband for the purposes of unit caps.

For example, if you had six Marksmen in your Sellsword warband and one of them Promotes, you still count as having six Marksmen and cannot buy another one, unless either the Promoted Marksmen or one of the henchman Marksmen dies or is retired, as usual.

Additionally, note that the Promotion table for your warband lists the types of Skills that can be learned by a Promoted version of each unit type.

Do note that a unit Promotes before rolling for Injury. This means that if it was Incapacitated in the previous battle, it would first Promote and then roll on the Hero Injury Table.

