---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Factions

Factions represent the forces within the city that aren't the warbands of the players. Factions are in constant conflict, both with each other and internally, with continual power struggles to determine who leads a faction at any one point and which faction holds influence over the city.

Each warband is aligned with a Faction, who acts as a patron of sorts. While having their own individual goals, warband's must also help to advance their Faction's goals. This means they are periodically coerced into carrying out their Faction's bidding, sometimes to the warband's detriment.

At the end of the campaign, should a warband have gained enough favour with their Faction, their benefactors will provide assistance to help them attempt to carry out their ultimate goal.


## Faction Overviews

There are three Factions in total, grouped by how they wield their influence over the city. None of the three Factions are considered morally good or evil. All three may have specific figures that tend towards one side or the other, but none are above reproach.

To get a sense of each Faction for the purposes of selecting one for your warband, each one is described below.
### Law

The Law Faction is a group of people aligned to the law of the city.  Its current leaders tend to  be those that held high positions of power before the populace was quarantined and society began to descend into anarchy. Old governmental, religious, and martial powers within the city tend to align with this Faction.

While they may have ruled by law before, this was not necessarily with a just hand. Greed and corruption were rife, with various institutes vying for superiority within the city. Now that the city is crumbling, they are simply doing so more openly.

Using what power they still have, these entities are grouping together in an attempt to claw back control of the city, while undermining each other at the same time.

### Chaos

The Chaos Faction represents those that would see the city fall into complete ruin. It's rumoured that the Chaos Faction is the source of the Plague itself, with their supposed purpose for doing so depending on who you ask.

Cults, rebels, and foreign powers are often involved in the Chaos Faction, meaning that those within it are rarely natural allies. Together they wage war against the Law Faction throughout the city, causing terror and fear in its already downtrodden inhabitants.

Cooperating in a shaky alliance, the Chaos Faction is just as likely to wage war against each other  as it is the Law.

### Underworld

While the other two Factions are locked in open war, the Underworld Faction attempts to profit from both sides, preferably without being noticed. This faction represents all manner of those that gain from the continuing unrest, with many of its members actively trying to prolong the crisis.

Gangs, smugglers, and assassins are all typical members of the Underworld. Groups within this faction will often try to stomp each other out in attempt to reduce competition, making use of their underhanded ways to do so.

Faction members will often take conflicting contracts, following through when it personally benefits them, but always profiting. Should they be too brazen, they may quickly experience the ire of the other Factions.

## Creating Factions

As part of starting a new campaign, the group must determine the exact makeup of the factions. Each Faction should be named prior to the start of the campaign, to help build the backdrop of the campaign from which the player's stories will arise. In addition, the exact Faction Agents and Faction Henchman need to be determined. We recommend doing this randomly, but other methods can be used if the group can reach a consensus on how to do so. The exact method to do so is described in the following sections.

### Choosing Faction Agents

Faction Agents are the central figures within a Faction, each vying for ultimate control. They will appear at various points throughout the campaign, sometimes as allies or as enemies.

Faction Agents tend to be quite impactful, being able to hold their own against members of a warband or having some other ability that makes them useful or dangerous. In general, they are about as complicated from a rules perspective as a hero of a warband.

To choose Faction Agents for each Faction, determine them randomly from the full list of potential Faction Agents for that Faction. The number selected is based on how many warbands join any one Faction. Specifically, two Faction Agents are chosen for each Faction at random, plus one additional Faction Agent for each warband that has aligned with that Faction.


### Choosing Faction Henchman

Faction Henchman are the underlings that the Faction uses to carry out minor tasks or provide assistance in battle. They are simpler than Faction Agents, being closer in complexity to a henchman in a warband.

Similarly to Faction Agents, Faction Henchman are determined randomly. However, instead of being dependent on the number of players in that Faction, two Faction Henchman types are selected at random, one from the Minor Henchman list and the other from the Major Henchman list for that Faction. These Faction Henchman will appear throughout the campaign.

<!--
JP 01-11-25: It would be cool to include info about creating your own Faction Agents (eg. a warband leader from a previous campaign had a great storyline and he is turned into a Faction Agent to live on in future campaigns). This is out of scope for this ruleset though I think, since we would need to describe how to cost a unit, which is the hardest part. Going to add a backlog card in Trello to handle this.
-->

## Interacting with Factions

There are a number of ways players will interact with Factions throughout the campaign. They are briefly described here, but are described in more detail when they come up within the rules themselves.

### Events

When an Event triggers in a game, a Faction Agent is selected at random. This Faction Agent then appears on the board, having some predetermined goal it will attempt to carry out. This can vary wildly depending on the agent. A Law Faction priest may try and heal the injured, a Chaos Faction cult leader may try to summon a demon, while an Underworld assassin may attempt to assassinate a warband's leader.

### Faction Support

Another way that players may interact with Faction Agents and Henchman is via Faction Support. Should a warband be underperforming relative to other warbands, a Faction will lend its support in the form of Henchman, or even Agents, that will temporarily fight for that warband. This is in the Faction's interests, as providing a little extra assistance to a protege may turn their fortunes around.

### Special Scenarios

Factions are at their most impactful during Special Scenarios. During them, each player has a Faction Agent as an ally, with Faction Henchman as further potential support. These Special Scenarios are often about carrying out the Faction's will, so they will be particularly invested in your success.

Should you win a Special Scenario, the Faction Agent that allied with you during it will even become a patron of sorts, being more willing to lend you their aid in the future.

## Faction Agent Scars and the Plague

Faction Agents can die from Scars and the Plague, just like anyone else. Whenever a Faction Agent is Incapacitated during a game, roll on the Hero Scars table. Keep track of any Scars, as well as whether they are Deathtouched.

The Plague is handled the same way as any other unit, checking to see if they catch it. If they do, they must make Plague Progression Rolls as usual, but only after games that they participate in.

They do not make Improvement Attempts whenever they would be required to do so. Faction Henchman similarly cannot Promote.

### Faction Agent Death

Should a Faction Agent die, select a new one at random from that Faction's Faction Agent list, essentially replacing the dead agent with the new one.