---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Playing a Campaign


## Practical Tips

### Deciding opponents

We don't prescribe any specific way to decide on who a player's next opponent should be, but we do have general guidelines that help keep a campaign as enjoyable as possible for all involved. 

* Players should play all other players as evenly as possible
* You should space a player's opponents out as much as possible
* A player's next opponent should be as random as possible
* Players shouldn't know who their next opponent is when completing their post-game (where practical)

This keeps variety high and the campaign feeling fresh. This could happen in a 'round robin' format, where every player completes a game against every other player (decided randomly) before repeating the cycle, but could be in other formats too.

Life inevitably gets in the way, with a player unable to make it to a session, or one game running longer than the others, requiring the opponent of one of those players to wait. For this reason, we recommend being flexible. Have a general schedule in mind, but we willing to deviate. When deviating, try to avoid the guidelines above where possible. Avoid two players playing consecutive games against each other though, even if that might mean delaying games.

### Multiple Games in a Day

It's often practical to play multiple games in a day, with multiple games running simultaneously. If you plan on doing this, we recommend doing a few things, assuming they work for your specific group.
#### Terrain Set Up

Try to make sure the terrain is at the location before the day, so that one or two players can get the tables set up beforehand. Have players rotate through tables throughout the day as much as possible. There will inevitably be some people that will play on the same board multiple times. If that's the case, try to accommodate them by agreeing to re-roll if you end up with the same deployment type, or agree to avoid choices that would have them set up in the same location as a previous game.

#### Create a Schedule

If this works for your group, create a schedule for the day. This reduces mental friction of deciding people's next opponents on the spot and lets the games be scheduled fairly.

#### Handling Post-Game

Where possible, have a basic plan for your post-game phase, such as Skills you may want heroes to learn, or what fancy new unit or equipment you are thinking of buying. Naturally, these plans will change with the roll of the dice, but it will hopefully save some time during the post-game, which may allow players to fit an extra game in.

<!--
JP 28-10-25:
Not sure about the last point, but I think the others work well.
-->