---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Upkeep Phase
The upkeep phase is divided into four sub-phases, which are done in order. The phases are:
1. Rout
2. Recover
3. Treasure
4. Event
## Rout Sub-Phase

Whenever a player has less than or equal to 75% of their warband units remaining, they must begin making rout checks at the start of each turn. The threshold at which a warband will start making rout checks should be noted on their warband sheet. The table can be used below for reference.

| No. of units in warband | No. of units incapacitated to begin rout checks |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| 1 - 4                   | 1                                               |
| 5 - 8                   | 2                                               |
| 9 - 12                  | 3                                               |
| 13 - 16                 | 4                                               |
| 17 - 20                 | 5                                               |

To make a rout check, simply find the highest Morale stat of all units in the warband that are not incapacitated. Now, make a Morale Check using that stat. If the Morale Check is passed, the warband can continue playing as normal. The warband will need to continue making Morale Checks each turn (assuming they still have less than the required units).

If the Morale Check is failed, the warband routs. All units of the warband are immediately removed from the table. The player no longer takes their turn (including the rest of the current turn). If only one player now remains, that player is the winner.
<!--
JP 13-03-25: I need to add treasure pick-up rules for routing above
-->

### Voluntarily Routing
Immediately after a player has made a rout check and passed, they may still choose to voluntarily rout. This allows them to avoid further losses in an already tough (or downright impossible) situation.

## Recover Sub-Phase

During this sub-phase, any units of the current player's turn recover. Any Stunned units become Dazed, Dazed units become Staggered, and Staggered units are no longer Staggered and function normally.

Stunned units are unable to do anything. They cannot engage, move, shoot, cast, or attack in melee. If an enemy attacks them in melee, they are immediately Incapacitated.

Dazed units are similar to Stunned units, but can move at half their base Move (and cannot Engage). In an enemy attacks them in melee, the enemy has Advantage. If the enemy hits and the Dazed unit fails their Defense Check, they are immediately Incapacitated.

Staggered units can move or engage at half their base speed but otherwise can shoot, cast, or attack in melee. However, they will roll all of these Checks with disadvantage until the end of their current turn. During their opponent's turn, they will no longer have disadvantage.

<!--
JP 13-03-25: I have renamed Knocked Down to Dazed and Out of Action to Incapacitated. Can chat on if we are happy with these names.

I was thinking about it, and Mordheim essentially has a third state. When you get up from knock down, you can only move at half speed, shoot, or cast (no running or charging). You also strike last in close combat. It does go away at the end of the turn though. Instead, I think it would be better to streamline it and actually make an explicit state. This does mean it would last for your own and your opponent's turn though. See above for what I've jotted down and if it sounds interesting. It also provides more value to Dazing an opponent's unit. Currently, anything that's not a Incapacitated almost feels like a waste of a shot.
-->

### Treasure Sub-Phase
Any unit that is in contact with a Treasure token and not within 2" of any opposing unit may pick up the Treasure. Some units may not be able to pick up Treasure (eg. animals), but can still deny opponents from picking up Treasure.

Units can carry multiple Treasure tokens and they do not impact movement. If a unit is Incapacitated, they will drop their Treasure tokens in place, which can then be picked up during future Upkeep Phases by other units.

### Event Sub-Phase
Whenever a unit picks up a Treasure token (including after it has been dropped by another unit), roll a d20. On a 16-20, an Event occurs. Roll another d20 and consult the Campaign Sheet as to what the specific Event will be.

Only one Event occurs per game. Once an Event has been triggered, players no longer need to roll for future Events and this Sub-Phase can be skipped.

<!--
JP 14-03-25: Should we do random happenings whenever someone picks up a Treasure token, or just the first time? I think we should go with whatever feels simpler (probably whenever anyone picks up?)

Table to be added. Will usually be based on the Faction Agents selected, plus some basic Random Happenings too? eg. contracting the Plague. Maybe, if Faction Agents are dead (or have joined a warband), then someone contracts the Plague? Can have a chat on this.
-->
