---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Engage Phase

Engaging is the primary way to enable your units to get into melee with enemies. Engages happen immediately after the Upkeep phase. All units not already Engaged can make one attempt to Engage during this phase.  If a unit attempts to Engage, it cannot Move or Shoot, but may still Cast Spells. This is regardless of whether the Engage is a success or failure. It will also be able to attack during the upcoming Melee Phase, assuming that it successfully Engages. In addition, if it successfully Engages, the unit will be able to Strike First in the first turn of melee (ie. the Melee Phase of the turn they Engaged).

As an Engage attempt is declared before measuring, there is the risk that your unit may fail an Engage, moving itself only part of the way to the target and leaving itself vulnerable to being shot or Engaged by the enemy on their following turn.

An Engage is resolved as follows:
1. Declare which of your units is attempting to Engage, and which model is the target
2.  Declare the path that the unit will be taking to reach the target. You can choose to do any one of the following:
	1. Engage the target via the most direct path possible that does not require any Checks
	2. Engage via a shorter path than above that does require at least one Check
	3. Engage via a path of any length that allows a Dive
3.  Determine the distance your unit is able to move during the Engage
	1. If your unit can see the target, the distance is equal to the unit's Run speed (ie. 1.5x the base Move of the unit)
	2. If your unit cannot see the target, the distance is determined by an [Out of Sight Roll](#out-of-sight-rolls)
4. Now measure the distance between the unit and the target via the path chosen during Step 2
5. If the distance determined in Step 3 means the unit can reach the target via the path, other players can now decide if they want to Intercept the Engage with one of their units
	1. If an enemy's unit could move 2" in a straight line so that they could block the path of the Engage, they are able to Intercept. If they do so, move them to this position and move the Engaging unit in base contact with the Interceptor
	2. If no one Intercepts the unit, the Engage succeeds! Move them in base contact with the target at a point that makes sense given the path of the Engage
6. If the distance in Step 3 is not enough, the Engage fails. Move the unit toward the target via the chosen path, but only as far as the unit's base Move attribute (or only half of the unit's base Move attribute if a 1-5 was rolled on an [Out of Sight Roll](#out-of-sight-rolls))

%%
JP 14-03-25: I wish Step 5.1 was a little cleaner. There's that whole 'perpendicular to the charge' rule in Mordheim, so that you don't have the situation where two units are standing next to each other and one walks in front to protect the other. Would it break things if this was allowed? I've reworded the rule to be '2" in a straight line' only.

Also, is it possible to have the sub-steps be letters instead? It would help with clarity on which step is getting referred to.

Also, general thoughts on the structure above? This is the way I prefer to have rules described (in an ordered set of steps) as it makes it very easy to reference, but I realise that may not be the case for others. I'm trying to also be very precise with language so that there's no ambiguity, but that sacrifices readability a bit.
%%
## Out of Sight Rolls

When Engaging a unit that your unit does not have Line of Sight of, roll on this table. On a roll of 16-20, the Engage distance is as normal (1.5x base Move of the unit). On any other roll, it is reduced as described.
If, as a result, you fail the Engage you must move towards the target the distance specified in the 'Failed Engage Move' column.

| d20   | Engage Distance            | Failed Engage Move         |
| ----- | -------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| 1-5   | 0.5x base Move of the unit | 0.5x base Move of the unit |
| 6-15  | 1x base Move of the unit   | 1x base Move of the unit   |
| 16-20 | 1.5x base Move of the unit | 1x base Move of the unit   |

### Engaging through allies

Your unit is able to move through allies during an Engage, assuming that they are not:
* Engaged
* Stunned
* Dazed
If moving through an ally would be the shortest path for the chosen method of Engaging, you must move through that ally.



### Engaging more than one opponent
If you can move your warrior into base contact with more than one enemy model with its charge move, it can charge them both. This might be inadvisable as it’ll then be fighting two enemies at once!

### Diving
If as part of your charge you make a drop down check and the target of the charge is within 3” of the drop down point you roll your attacks with advantage.

### Making room for engagement
If a unit is on the edge of a ledge or top of a ladder you may still charge them. If there is not enough room for your unit to be placed next to the unit charged then shuffle it back to make room. You may not shuffle any units that are already engaged in combat in this way.

### Frenzy and engaging
If a unit has frenzy measure to see if they can charge anyone at the end of the charging phase. If they can make a charge without making any agility checks then they must do so.

### Fear
If an enemy unit causes fear you must make a morale check in order to charge them. If you fail the fear check you do not move this turn and may not shoot or cast spells.

If your unit causes fear and you charge an enemy unit they must make a morale check. If they fail they get negative 4 piercing to their attacks for the first round of combat.

If both units cause fear then neither must make any morale checks.

#### Failing fear checks
| When charging | Failed charge                        |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| Being charged | -4 Piercing in first round of combat |

