---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# Move Phase

Any unit that did not attempt to Engage, and is not Stunned or Dazed, may move a number of inches according to their movement characteristic within the Movement phase.

- If possible a unit may instead Run to move further.
- A unit may also climb, jump, or drop down as part of their normal movement or Run
- When moving or Running any terrain that is up to 1" high may be freely moved over with no penalty.
- Enemy units block movement
- Friendly units that are Engaged in melee, Stunned, or Dazed block movement.

## Running
If your unit is not within 8" of any opposing unit they may Run. When Running, a unit may move 1.5x their normal Movement (eg. if a unit has 6" Movement they may run 9"). A unit may also climb, jump, or drop down as part of their running movement.

If a unit Runs, it may not shoot in the same turn. If it can cast spells, it will do so with a penalty.

<!--
JP 17-03-25: 8" is actually measured with vertical height too right? I think we should explain that in the speedheim overview section as a general principle
-->

## Climbing
To climb up or down a vertical surface as part of your movement roll an agility check. If you succeed then move along the vertical surface as part of your movement. If the check is failed then put the unit next to the vertical surface from where they would have climbed and end their movement.

- When climbing up, a failure does not result in a Fall
- When climbing down, a failure does result in a Fall
- A unit must end its movement in a place where it can be placed, it cannot be halfway up a wall.
<!--
JP 17-03-25: I noticed you changed that if you climb down and fail, it doesn't count as a fall. This isn't how it works in mordies (you do fall, but climbing down from a high place means you only make a single Agi check). I reverted it to Mordies rules for now, but can discuss it, in case it was an intentional change.
-->

## Falling
When falling, simply roll on the Injury chart. For every extra full inch above 2” that the unit falls from, add +2 to the Injury roll. A roll of 1-11 has no effect.

## Jumping
Make an Agility check to jump across a gap of up to 3” and a height of up to 1”. If you fail then you fall.

## Jump down
Instead of climbing a unit may jump down a ledge for no vertical movement cost. Make a single agility check to successfully drop down, if you fail you fall. If you instead opt to climb down a failed climb check does not result in falling.

<!--
JP 17-03-25: This is similarly different. It only requires one check in your rules vs multiple in mordies (1 for every 2 full inches). I am potentially okay to go this route, but I think injury needs to become even more severe. Alternatively, we can roll it into one rule but have a negative modifier to Agi rolls instead.

Am I losing my mind and maybe we have discussed this previously? I couldn't see it on the change log though.

JP 23-03-25: Jump down needs to be reworded. May be an Agi check with disadvantage, plus can now land up to 3" away (paying the horizontal movement cost). This means they can jump over other enemies.
-->

## Ladders
Ladders are treated like normal terrain for most units, you may run and charge up ladders as though they were flat terrain.
- Animals may not climb ladders
- A unit may not end its movement halfway up a ladder

## Reloading
Certain weapons may require reloading. A weapon may be reloaded in the movement phase instead of moving.

## Difficult Terrain
If a unit moves through difficult terrain at any point during their turn, their total speed is reduced by 2".  The amount of difficult terrain moved through does not matter. This is applied after all other modifiers, such as Running or Engaging. So a unit that has a base Move of 6" could normally move 4" through difficult terrain during their turn, or 7" Running (9" normally, minus 2" penalty).

<!--
JP 17-03-25: Difficult terrain?
JP 23-03-25: Added a new rule to test

JP 23-03-25: For Climb Down, the only downside to failure is that you don't climb down and movement ends (no falling). Consistent with Climb Up.

For Jump Down, you make one Agi check. If you are 4" or higher, you roll with Disadvantage.

For being dazed or stunned next to a ledge, you just do a single Agi check as normal.
-->

