---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Movement phase
Any unit that did not charge may move a number of inches according to their movement characteristic within the movement phase.

- If possible a unit may instead run to move further.
- A unit may also climb, jump or drop down as part of their normal movement or running.
- When moving or running any terrain that is up to 1 inch high may be freely moved over with no penalty.
- Enemy units or friendly units that are engaged in combat block movement.

## Running
If your unit is not within 8 inches of any opposing unit (measuring as a crow flies) they may run. When running a unit may move 1.5 times their normal movement. Eg. if a unit has 7 movement they may run 10.5 inches. A unit may also climb, jump or drop down as part of their running movement.

## Climbing
To climb up or down a vertical surface as part of your movement roll an agility check. If you succeed then move along the vertical surface as part of your movement. If the check is failed then put the unit next to the vertical surface from where they would have climbed and end their movement.

- Failing a climbing check never results in falling.
- A unit must end its movement in a place where it can be placed, it cannot be halfway up a wall.

## Falling
When falling, simply roll on the Injury chart. For every extra full inch above 2” that the unit falls from, add +2 to the Injury roll. A roll of 1-11 has no effect.

## Jumping
Make an agility check to jump across a gap of up to 3” and a height of up to 1”. If you fail then you fall.

## Dropping down
Instead of climbing a unit may drop down a ledge for no movement cost. Make a single agility check to successfully drop down, if you fail you fall. If you instead opt to climb down a failed climb check does not result in falling.

## Ladders
Ladders are treated like normal terrain for most units, you may run and charge up ladders as though they were flat terrain.
- Animals may not climb ladders
- A unit may not end its movement halfway up a ladder

## Reloading
Certain weapons may require reloading. A weapon may be reloaded in the movement phase instead of moving.
