---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Shooting & Spellcasting phase
In this phase you may shoot or cast spells with your units.
- Units in that are engaged in melee combat may not shoot
- Units that have run this turn may not shoot
- Units that are stunned or knocked down may not shoot or cast spells
- Spellcasting may still be performed even in melee or after running with +2 difficulty

## Picking a target for shooting
There are a number of conditions that affect who may be the target of a ranged attack:
- Your unit must have line of sight to the target
- If your unit is 2 inches elevated from any enemy units that they can see they may target them
- If you are not elevated you must shoot the closest enemy
- You may instead opt to shoot the next closest enemy that is not in cover if the closest enemy is in cover
- You may never shoot enemies that are engaged in melee combat

## Shooting
1. You measure to see if you are within range to shoot
2. Perform a Ranged check (remember the value!)
  a. If you are within half range and elevated by at least 2” of the target you are shooting at, you get Advantage on your Ranged check
  b. If you roll a natural 20, you Crit and immediately skip to Step 4
3. If you pass, your opponent performs a Defence check (see the modifiers below)
4. If they fail, you reduce their wounds by 1
  a. If this lowers their wounds to 0, you Injure them based on what you rolled in Step 3 (see the Injuries section for how this is handled)

## Shooting defence modifiers
| Situation                | Defence Modifier |
| ------------------------ | ---------------- |
| Your opponent has cover  | -3 Piercing      |
| You have moved this turn | -3 Piercing      |
| Your opponent is Large   | +3 Piercing      |

## Spellcasting
You may cast spells during the shooting and spellcasting phase. Spellcasting is not subjected to the same rules as shooting for picking targets.

To cast a spell roll equal to or higher than the difficulty of the spell. Depending on the spell, how well you rolled to cast the spell may be relevant.

## Spellcasting modifiers
When engaged in melee combat, running or charging casting a spell is more difficult. Add a +2 to the difficulty of the spell in any of these cases.

## Armour and spellcasting
Only units that cast prayers may equip armour or a shield.

