---
sidebar_position: 1
---
# Turn Overview
After the pre-game deployment and other steps have been completed, the game can begin in proper. Each player takes their turns one at a time. Once all players have taken a turn, the first player takes their second turn. This generally continues until all players except one have routed, at which point the remaining player is the winner. When a player routs, their turns are skipped for the remainder of the game.
## Turn Phases

Turns are broken up into six phases:
1. [Upkeep](docs/3.%20Game%20Rules/2.%20Upkeep%20Phase.md)
2. [Engage](docs/3.%20Game%20Rules/3.%20Engage%20Phase.md)
3. [Move](docs/3.%20Game%20Rules/4.%20Move%20Phase.md)
4. [Ranged](docs/3.%20Game%20Rules/6.%20Shoot%20Phase.md)
5. [Cast](docs/3.%20Game%20Rules/5.%20Cast%20Phase.md)
6. [Melee](docs/3.%20Game%20Rules/7.%20Melee%20Phase.md)

When it is your turn, you will complete each phase step by step. In the upkeep phase, a number of checks take place in which the player whose turn it is has very limited input. In the engage phase, the player chooses whether they want to attempt to engage an enemy in melee by moving into contact with them. In the move phase, the player moves any remaining units that didn't move during the engage phase. In the ranged phase, the player may make ranged attacks with any unit that is able to do so. In the cast phase, the player can use their units to cast spells (where possible). Finally, in the melee phase, any engaged units will fight it out in close combat.

In the following sections, each individual phase will be described in more detail.
