---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Engage Phase

Engaging is the primary way to enable your units to get into melee with enemies. Engages happen immediately after the Upkeep phase. All units not already Engaged can make one attempt to Engage during this phase.  Engages usually follow all the same rules as when Running, with the objective of getting into base-to-base contact with the enemy to start melee combat.

This includes the normal rules of when you can move through allies. The one thing to note is that, if moving through an ally would be the shortest path for the chosen method of Engaging (described below), you must move through that ally.

If a unit attempts to Engage, it cannot Move or Shoot, but may still Cast Spells. This is regardless of whether the Engage is a success or failure. It will also be able to attack during the upcoming Melee Phase, assuming that it successfully Engages. In addition, if it successfully Engages, the unit will be able to Strike First in the first turn of melee (ie. the Melee Phase of the turn they Engaged).

As an Engage attempt is declared before measuring, there is the risk that your unit may fail an Engage, moving itself only part of the way to the target and leaving themself vulnerable to being shot or Engaged by the enemy on their following turn.

An Engage is resolved as follows:
1. Declare which of your units is attempting to Engage, and which model is the target
2.  Declare the path that the unit will be taking to reach the target. You can choose to do any one of the following:
	1. Engage the target via the most direct path possible that does not require any Checks
	2. Engage via a shorter path than above that does require at least one Check
	3. Engage via a path of any length that allows a Dive
3.  Determine the distance your unit is able to move during the Engage
	1. If your unit can see the target, the distance is equal to the unit's Run speed (ie. 1.5x the base Move of the unit)
	2. If your unit cannot see the target, the distance is determined by an [Out-of-Sight Roll](#out-of-sight-rolls)
4. Measure the distance between the unit and the target via the path chosen during Step 2 based on usual Move rules
5. If the distance determined in Step 3 means the unit can reach the target via the path, other players can now decide if they want to Intercept the Engage with one of their units
	1. If an enemy's unit could move 2" in a straight line so that they could, at least partially, block the path of the Engage, they are able to Intercept. If they do so, move them to this position and move the Engaging unit in base contact with the Interceptor
	2. If no one Intercepts the unit, the Engage succeeds! Move them in base-to-base contact with the target at a point that makes sense given the path of the Engage
6. If the distance in Step 3 is not enough, the Engage fails. Move the unit toward the target via the chosen path, but only as far as the unit's base Move attribute (or only half of the unit's base Move attribute if a 1-5 was rolled on an [Out-of-Sight Roll](#out-of-sight-rolls)).


<!--
JP 14-03-25: I wish Step 5.1 was a little cleaner. There's that whole 'perpendicular to the charge' rule in Mordheim, so that you don't have the situation where two units are standing next to each other and one walks in front to protect the other. Would it break things if this was allowed? I've reworded the rule to be '2" in a straight line' only.

Also, is it possible to have the sub-steps be letters instead? It would help with clarity on which step is getting referred to.

Also, general thoughts on the structure above? This is the way I prefer to have rules described (in an ordered set of steps) as it makes it very easy to reference, but I realise that may not be the case for others. I'm trying to also be very precise with language so that there's no ambiguity, but that sacrifices readability a bit.
-->
## Out-of-Sight Rolls

When attempting to Engage a unit that your unit does not have Line-of-Sight of, roll on this table. On a roll of 16-20, the Engage distance is as normal (1.5x base Move of the unit). On any other roll, it is reduced as described.
If, as a result, you fail the Engage you must move towards the target the distance specified in the 'Failed Engage Move' column.

| d20   | Engage Distance            | Failed Engage Move         |
| ----- | -------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| 1-5   | 0.5x base Move of the unit | 0.5x base Move of the unit |
| 6-15  | 1x base Move of the unit   | 1x base Move of the unit   |
| 16-20 | 1.5x base Move of the unit | 1x base Move of the unit   |

## Engaging multiple enemies

If it is possible to Engage in such a way that you are in base contact with multiple enemies, you may do so. Declare the multiple targets when starting to resolve the Engage, as usual. Choose the shortest path that allows you to reach this position.

If it is unclear whether one unit can Engage multiple targets (due to spacing of the targets or whether there is a large enough gap for the Engager to move through, it is encouraged to allow the Engaged to happen.

## Jump Attack

If, as part of your Engage, you successfully Jump Down and land immediately in base-to-base contact with your target, you roll your attacks with Advantage for the current turn.

<!--
JP 17-03-25: We still need to decide on diving rules. I think the original spirit of the rules is that, if an enemy is within 3", that is the distance you could have jumped a gap (3"). I guess that doesn't quite make sense though, as you are jumping down, so should be able to get further?
-->

## Making Room for Engaging

If a unit is on the edge of a ledge or top of a ladder you may still Engage them. If there is not enough room for your unit to be placed next to the unit Engaged then shuffle it back to make room.

<!--
JP 24-03-25: I am removing this line 'You may not shuffle any units that are already engaged in combat in this way'. I think that, if you can reach legitimately (ie. normal movement rules and not through other engaged units), we should allow the engagement. Can discuss to confirm.
-->

## Fear

If an enemy unit causes Fear you must make a Morale check in order to Engage them. If you fail the Morale Check, the unit does not move. This still counts as a failed Engage (so the unit may not Move or Shoot this turn).

If your unit causes Fear and you Engage an enemy unit they must make a Morale Check. If they fail, they get Disadvantage to their attacks for the rest of the turn.

If both units cause Fear, this negates Fear's effect and neither must make any Morale Checks.

<!--
JP 23-03-25: Changing to give the person being charged disadvantage.

| When charging | Failed charge                        |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| Being charged | -4 Piercing in first round of combat |

-->
