---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Shoot Phase
In this phase you may shoot or cast spells with your units. A unit may not Shoot if they:
* do not have a Reloaded Ranged Weapon
* are Engaged in Melee
* have Ran this turn
* are Stunned
* are Dazed

## Ranged Weapons

Ranged weapons have a few attributes, as described below. These inform players on how to best use each Ranged Weapon. In addition, Ranged Weapons may have some specific special rules. The

### Range

This describes the maximum distance between a unit and the enemy it is Shooting at. If the unit being Shot at is further away than this distance, the Shot automatically misses. Additionally, if the

### Piercing

As described elsewhere, a weapon that has Piercing reduces the enemy's Defense by an equivalent amount when attacked by that weapon.

For example, a Pistol with Piercing +3 is used to Shoot at a Sellsword Warrior with a Shield, which has Defense 15. The Pistol reduces the Warrior's Defense to 18 during the Shot.

### Injury Modifier

As described elsewhere, a Ranged Weapon that has an Injury Modifier increases the value of a Ranged Check (or Melee Check if a Melee Weapon is being used in Melee) for the purposes of Injury, but not for the purpose of hitting the target.

For example, if a Sellsword Archer with Ranged 14 uses a Crossbow (Injury +2), they still need to roll a 14 or higher during their Ranged Check to hit. If that Archer did roll a 14 and the target failed their Defense Check, the Check would instead count as a 16 for the purposes of Injury. This means that the target would be Stunned instead of Dazed.

### Reloading Special Rules

In addition to other attributes, Ranged Weapons may have some other special rules. Two of the most common ones pertain to when they can be Reloaded. A Ranged Weapon begins the game Reloaded and, unless described otherwise, is automatically Reloaded between turns. A Ranged Weapon that is not Reloaded cannot be used to Shoot. The Special Rules around Reloading are described below.
#### Stand and Reload

Some weapons are too difficult to Reload while Moving. Stand and Reload requires a unit to forego Moving for a turn to Reload. A weapon that has this property starts the game Loaded. Once used to Shoot, the unit must not Move during a future Move Phase before the weapon can be used to Shoot again. A unit can forego its Move in a Move Phase and then immediately Shoot using the weapon in the Shoot Phase of the same turn.

#### Long Reload

Some weapons (usually Blackpowder Weapons) require a series of steps to Reload and so take some time between shots. For this reason, a Load Reload weapon cannot be used to Shoot if it was used to Shoot in the previous turn.

## Picking a Target for Shooting
By default, the closest enemy to the Shooting unit that meets the following requirements is the only valid target to be shot at:
* Is in Line-of-Sight
* Is not Engaged
There are four exceptions to this:
1. If the closest enemy is in Cover, then the closest enemy not in Cover can be targeted instead
2. Enemies that are Stunned or Dazed can be ignored for the purposes of targeting
3. Any Large enemy can be targeted
4. Any enemy that is at least 2" below the Shooting unit can be targeted

<!--
JP 25-03-25:
Example to use:
From closest to furthest:
Stunned in Cover (Can shoot)
Stunned in Cover (Can shoot)
In Cover (Can shoot)
In Cover (Cannot shoot)
Not In Cover (Can shoot)
Not In Cover (Cannot shoot)
Large (Can shoot)
Someone that is at least 2" below the shooter (Can shoot)

Give explanation why each can or cannot be shot at
-->

## Being Elevated

If an enemy is at least 2" below your Shooting unit, they may be targeted by your unit. In addition, if the target is within half range of the Ranged Weapon being used (this can only be measured after declaring the target to be Shot at), then the unit Shooting has Advantage on their Ranged Check.

## Cover*


## Shooting
1. Declare which of your units is attempting to Shoot, and which model is the target, based on the targeting rules
2. Measure to see if the unit is within range to shoot
	1. If the unit is not within range, the Shot automatically misses
3. Perform a Ranged check (remember the value!)
	1. If you are within half-range and at least 2" above the target you are shooting at, you get Advantage on your Ranged check
	2. If you roll a natural 20, you score a Critical Hit and immediately skip to Step 4
4. If you pass, your opponent performs a Defense check (see the modifiers below)
5. If they fail, you reduce their Wounds by 1
	1. If this lowers their wounds to 0, you Injure them based on what you rolled in Step 3 (see the Injuries section for how this is handled)


## Shooting Modifiers


| Situation                | Defence Modifier |
| ------------------------ | ---------------- |
| Your opponent has cover  | -3 Piercing      |
| You have moved this turn | -3 Piercing      |
| Your opponent is Large   | +3 Piercing      |

