---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Faction Support

If your faction ever feels as though you are not meeting their high expectations, or they know you are about to have a run-in with a particularly tough opponent, they will lend you their aid. This comes in the form of Faction Support, which can be spent to temporarily hire Faction Henchman, or even powerful Faction Agents.

## Calculating Faction Support

Before starting a game each player counts how many overall wins they have. The player with less wins receives 15 gold of Faction Support this game, for each win they have less. If the players are tied for wins, neither receives Faction Support.

For example, Alice has 4 wins and Bob has 2 wins. Bob will get 30g worth of Faction Support for this game.

## Spending Faction Support

Faction Henchman and Faction Agents can be purchased with Faction Support gold. This gold can only be spent on hiring these Faction Henchman or Agents, and is lost if not spent. Faction Henchman/Agents that are purchased in this way will join the warband for this game only, leaving afterwards. They cannot Improve and have fixed equipment, as noted in their description.

### Spending Warband Gold on Faction Henchman & Agents

If a player chooses to, they can spend additional gold from their own warband to purchase Faction Henchman or Agents. This might be done if an underdog is a few gold away from being able to gain an additional Faction Henchman for this game, or if a player knows they have a critical game against an opponent. Gold spent this way is lost. 1g of warband gold is the equivalent of 1g of Faction Support gold.

## Special Scenarios

For special scenarios, each player will gain 100 gold of Faction Support, regardless of their number of wins. This is in addition to any Faction Support normally gained by having less wins than your opponent. This gold must be used to hire at least one Faction Agent.
