---
sidebar_position: 2
---
## Underdog Bonus
Before starting a game each player counts how many overall game wins they have. The underdog will get 15g worth of faction support for every extra win that your opponent has.

eg. Jane has 4 wins and Bob only has 2 wins overall. Bob will get 30g worth of faction support for this game.

## Faction Support Gold
Faction agents can be purchased with faction support gold. This gold can only be spent on faction agents and if not spent, it is lost at the end of the battle.

## First Turn Limitations

Note that if you are going first you cannot do the following on your first turn (effectively skipping the relevant Phases/Steps):
* Pick up Treasure
* Engage
* Cast
* Shoot

## First Games of the Campaign

At the start of the campaign, the city is largely unlooted, so there is an abundance of treasure! However, as the campaign progresses, treasure becomes harder to find.

For the first game of the campaign (ie. when the players have not played any games yet), place two additional Treasure tokens during deployment. It is recommended to set up the Treasure so that six of the tokens are placed in a formation similar to the pips of the 'six' face of a six-sided die, with the seventh token in the centre of the board.

For the second game of the campaign (ie. when the players have only played a single game), place one additional Treasure token during deployment. It's recommended to follow the same formation listed above, but without the seventh token in the centre.

It is possible that the number of games played by both players may not be the same. It's highly recommended to avoid this situation if possible. If it is unavoidable, try to match up the player that has played no games against a player that has won the least games of the other players (so preferably someone that has not yet won a game). In this case, place extra treasure tokens based on the player that has played less games. So if one player has played no games and the other has played one, set up two additional Treasure tokens.