---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Map Setup and Deployment

This section describes the bulk of setup for a game. First, the map must be set up, then the warbands deployed. At that point, the game can be started!
## Map Setup

There are a few steps to carry out during map setup. These are:

1. Roll for map type
2. Set up map
3. Add Treasure tokens

Each one is described below.
### Roll for Map Type

Roll on the table below to decide on the map type. If you don't have satisfactory terrain for certain map types, feel free to reroll. Which map types the group has terrain for can be discussed at the start of a campaign.

| d20 | Map Type                                           |
| --- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | Notable building in the centre                     |
| 2   | Village alongside a river                          |
| 3   | Main street in a city                              |
| 4   | River through the city, large bridge in the middle |
| 5   | Cemetery                                           |
| 6   | Docks                                              |
| 7   | Mountaintop                                        |
| 8   | Valley                                             |
| 9   | Hillside                                           |
| 10  | Sewers                                             |
| 11  | Town Square                                        |
| 12  | Park in the middle                                 |
| 13  | Abandoned hideout (many bridge connections)        |
| 14  | Defensible position                                |
| 15  | Dense city                                         |
| 16  | City outskirts (low density)                       |
| 17  | City walls (in the middle)                         |
| 18  | City with keep in the middle                       |
| 19  | Warehouse district                                 |
| 20  | Mansion                                            |
| 21  | Tower in the middle                                |

### Set Up Map

After rolling for the Map Type, set up the terrain according to that map time. With terrain, 
#### Guidelines for Map Set Up

The end goal is always to encourage warbands to split up and use the terrain in a variety of interesting ways.

<!--
JP 28-10-25: Add more here.
-->
##### Tall Buildings

In general, it's recommended to have taller buildings towards the centre of the board, as these are often ideal positions for units with Ranged Weapons to hole up and rain death down upon unsuspecting foes. If they are placed closer to the edge, try to distribute them across the board evenly so that no one side is too heavily favoured.

Tall buildings can often also be placed in such a way where they do not provide so much of an advantage, such as having an exposed side face toward the centre of the board, or having other tall terrain near it to block line-of-sight.

There is nothing wrong with allowing these set ups, but careless placement has the potential to allow one player to wreak havoc on another.

##### Open Spaces

Similarly, open spaces should be used sparingly. They are a great way to create variety within a map, but too many can encourage warbands to bunch up in the area and have the game be one large melee, or become a shooting ground for ranged units nearby. The more chokepoints within a map, the more it encourages warbands to split up to effectively use their entire roster.


### Add Treasure Tokens

Now that the map is set up, Treasure tokens need to be added to the board. These act as objectives for the players to fight over and claim. In general, five tokens are placed down at the start of a game, unless noted otherwise.

It's recommended to place Treasure tokens one token directly in the middle, with the other four spread out so that they are all a third of the board away from each board edge, as well as a third away from each other. Having them be at a variety of heights is ideal.

Be aware that having them out in the open makes them harder to pick up, as units will likely come under ranged fire while attempting to claim the Treasure token. Inversely, having them behind cover makes it much easier for them to be picked up. A variety is fine, but it is better not to favour one side of the board too heavily.

<!--
JP 28-10-25: Add in diagrams to make it easy to understand.

-->
#### First Games of the Campaign

At the start of the campaign, the city is largely unlooted, so there is an abundance of treasure! However, as the campaign progresses, treasure becomes harder to find.

For the first game of the campaign (ie. when the players have not played any games yet), place two additional Treasure tokens during deployment. It is recommended to set up the Treasure so that six of the tokens are placed in a formation similar to the pips of the 'six' face of a six-sided die, with the seventh token in the centre of the board.

For the second game of the campaign (ie. when the players have only played a single game), place one additional Treasure token during deployment. It's recommended to follow the same formation listed above, but without the seventh token in the centre.

##### Players with Different Number of Played Games

It is possible that the number of games played by both players may not be the same. It's highly recommended to avoid this situation if possible. If it is unavoidable, try to match up the player that has played no games against a player that has won the least games of the other players (so preferably someone that has not yet won a game). In this case, place extra treasure tokens based on the player that has played less games. So if one player has played no games and the other has played one, set up two additional Treasure tokens.

#### Event Tokens

From the pool of seven Event tokens, randomly choose a number of tokens equal to the number of Treasure tokens in the game, making sure not to see which (if any) will trigger an Event. Place them randomly face down under each Treasure token. The first time a unit picks up a Treasure token, flip the Event token to see if an Event is triggered. Whether an Event is triggered or not, the token is discarded.

There is only one Event token that can trigger an Event, so once that Event token is revealed during the game, it is not necessary to check the other tokens.
## Deployment



3. Roll for deployment type
4. Check if any units are missing the game
5. Roll for who deploys first/goes first (higher roll goes first)
6. First player deploys
7. Second player deploys
### Deployment Types

| d20   | Deployments                                                           | First Set up/Turn |
| ----- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1-6   | Opposite edge                                                         |                   |
| 7-11  | Opposite quadrant                                                     |                   |
| 12    | Ambush (Defender in middle, Attacker on any edges)                    | Attacker first    |
| 13    | One side scattered, one along an edge                                 |                   |
| 14    | One side scattered, one along multiple edges                          |                   |
| 15-16 | Strike teams vs strike teams                                          |                   |
| 17-18 | Strike teams vs scattered                                             |                   |
| 19-20 | Four equal lengths (1,2,3,4). One person deploys in 1,3 and other 2,4 |                   |



1. Check for faction support
2. Spend faction support/spare cash
3. Roll for map type.
4. Set up map.
5. Add Treasure tokens (note that there are extra tokens at the start of the campaign)
6. Add Event tokens under Treasure tokens at random (seven Event tokens are shuffled. Not all may be used).
7. Roll for deployment type
8. Roll for who deploys first/goes first (higher roll goes first)
9. First player deploys
10. Second player deploys
11. First player starts first turn