---
sidebar_position: 99
---

# Quick Reference

:::danger[Actively Being Updated]
This section will change prior to the start of alpha playtesting.
:::
### Charging out of sight

| d20   | Charge distance              |
| ----- | ---------------------------- |
| 1-5   | Half of base Move            |
| 6-15  | Full base Move               |
| 16-20 | Charge distance is as normal |

### Combat statuses

| Knocked Down | Melee check with Advantage, Defence check as normal         |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| Stunned      | Out of Action automatically (but costs one attack to do so) |

### Injuries

| Attack | Result                                    |
| ------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| 1-11   | Knocked Down (or no effect in some cases) |
| 12-14  | Knocked Down                              |
| 15-17  | Stunned                                   |
| 18-20  | Out of Action                             |

### Fear failures

| Charging      | Failed charge |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Being charged | -4 Piercing   |

### Promotion

| Henchmen OOA hero   | 18+ |
| ------------------- | --- |
| Henchmen OOA leader | 15+ |

### Routing

| No. of Warriors | OOAs |
| --------------- | ---- |
| 1 - 4           | 1    |
| 5 - 8           | 2    |
| 9 - 12          | 3    |
| 13 - 16         | 4    |
| 17 - 18         | 5    |

### Spellcasting
If you run, charge or are engaged in melee combat then the difficulty of spellcasting is increased by +2.

### Shooting from elevation
If you are within half range and elevated by at least 2” of the target you are shooting at, you get Advantage on your Ranged check. You may choose to shoot anyone that is at least 2” lower than you as opposed to the nearest target.

### Reloading ranged weapons
You must forgo your movement to reload this weapon. It cannot be fired again until it has been reloaded.

### Shooting modifiers

| Cover           | -3 Piercing |
| --------------- | ----------- |
| Moved this turn | -3 Piercing |
| Large opponent  | +3 Piercing |

### Falling
When falling, simply roll on the Injury chart. For every extra full inch above 2” that the unit falls from, add +2 to the Injury roll. A roll of 1-11 has no effect.

### Jumping
Make an agility check to jump across a gap of up to 3” and a height of up to 1”. If you fail then you fall.

### Dropping down
Instead of Climbing a unit may Jump Down from a higher point for no vertical movement cost. To Jump Down, place the unit on the ground within 3" of where it is Jumping Down from. This allows units to Jump over other units or terrain, assuming they are not higher than the unit that is Jumping Down.

Now, an Agility Check must be made to see whether the unit safely landed. If the distance being jumped is 4" or more vertically, the unit makes the Agility Check with Disadvantage. On a success, it lands and may continue Moving as normal. If it fails, it fell to the position is landed. Resolving Falling as normal.

### Jump Attack
A unit may perform a Jump Attack under all of the following conditions:
- As part of your Engage you make a successful Jump Down check
- Where you land after your Jump Down check directly engaged with a unit

If you successfully perform a Jump Attack you roll your attacks with Advantage for the current turn.

