---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# Scars & the Blight

After each game, any unit that was Incapacitated during that game must roll for Scars. Heroes and henchman roll on separate tables, reflecting a hero's ability to overcome wounds that would kill a regular person.

Roll on the appropriate table below and consult the result. Some results have permanent effects. Adjust the stats of the unit, or add a new Special Rule as appropriate. Stats can be lowered by the same result multiple times.
## Hero Scars

| d20   | Name            | Result                                                                                                           |
| ----- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1     | Blight          | This unit contracts the Blight or gains 'Deathtouched' if they already have the Blight.                          |
| 2-6   | Deathtouched    | Check the 'Deathtouched' checkbox. If this is already checked, the unit dies.                                    |
| 7     | Madness         | This unit gains the Madness special rule                                                                         |
| 8     | Leg Wound       | This unit gains 'Slow' special rule                                                                              |
| 9     | Major Wound     | Roll again: 1-5 Worsen Defence by 2, 6-10 Worsen Melee by 2, 11-15 Worsen Ranged by 2, 16-20 Worsen Agility by 2 |
| 10    | Light Wound     | Miss the next game                                                                                               |
| 11-15 | Nothing happens | Nothing happens                                                                                                  |
| 16    | Pit Fight!      | Pit Fight (see below)                                                                                            |
| 17    | Berserk         | This unit gains the Berserker special rule                                                                       |
| 18    | Disfigured      | This unit gains the Fear special rule                                                                            |
| 19    | Hatred          | This unit gains Hatred for the opposing warband                                                                  |
| 20    | Improvement     | This unit immediately makes an Improvement Attempt with Advantage                                                |
### Deathtouched

A hero that sustains a Scar may become Deathtouched. When this happens, the 'Deathtouched' checkbox is checked on the warband sheet for the relevant hero. The hero is now close to death and an additional 'Deathtouched' result on the Scars table will result in the hero dying.
### Pit Fight

If a hero rolls 'Pit Fight!', that hero is forced to take part in a Pit Fight against its will, with freedom on the line. The hero faces off in single combat with the 'Pit Fighter' Faction Agent. Have another player control the Pit Fighter for the duration of this battle. Both units start 5" away from each other. Roll randomly to see who goes first and then begin the fight. The battle continues until either side is Incapacitated. That unit does not need to make a Scar Roll (although Pit Fights that occur during an active game due to the Faction Agent Event do require Scar Rolls for the Incapacitated unit, as normal).

If the hero wins, it gains an Improvement Attempt and gains 50g for its warband. If the hero loses, that hero becomes the new Pit Fighter. The new Pit Fighter still takes up a slot on its warband sheet and immediately gains the 'Pit Fighter' skill, but misses all future games the warband takes part in, until the Pit Fighter is released. The Pit Fighter Event and Scar Roll result now uses the stats of the new Pit Fighter.

If the old Pit Fighter was part of a warband, it is released after the fight, regardless of whether it won or lost. If it won, it returns to the warband with 50g and an Improvement Attempt. The released Pit Fighter retains the 'Pit Fighter' skill regardless.

If the Pit Fighter slot is ever vacant, the original, Neutral Pit Fighter returns and becomes the Pit Fighter again.



## Henchmen Scars

| d20  | Result                                                                  |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1    | This unit contracts the Blight or dies if they already have the Blight. |
| 2-4  | Death                                                                   |
| 5-20 | Nothing happens                                                         |


## The Blight

Units can contract the Blight incidentally when Incapacitated, or from being in contact with someone that has the Blight. The Blight is known to be spread via blood, so battles between warbands is a common way for the Blight to spread. Allies with the Blight are generally kept at a distance, preventing the spread within warbands.
### Blight Roll

After rolling for Scars, any units that have the Blight must roll at the end of every game to see how the Blight progresses.

| d20   | Result                                |
| ----- | ------------------------------------- |
| 1-4   | Henchman: Death, Heroes: Deathtouched |
| 5-15  | Nothing happens                       |
| 16-20 | Recover from the Blight               |

### Blight Effects

The Blight has the following effects during battle:

1. Units with the Blight gain Advantage on Melee Checks during the first turn of any new combat.
2. If a unit Incapacitates or is Incapacitated by a unit with the Blight in Melee, they must make a Morale Check. If it fails, they immediately contract the Blight.
	1. If the unit that was Incapacitated already has the Blight then nothing happens.

## Death

When a unit dies (usually via Scars or the Blight), the following happens:
* Immediately remove that unit from your warband sheet
* Lose any equipment that the unit had

Note that this does not impact the number of hero slots you have. For example, if you have five hero slots and lose one of your five heroes, the number of hero slots remains at five.


### Death of a Leader

In the unfortunate event that your Leader dies, select one of your other heroes. They gain the 'Leader' skill and are treated as the Leader for the purpose of rules from now on. You may re-buy the dead hero type in the future (up to the cap of one), but such a unit will not have the 'Leader' skill upon purchase and is not considered the Leader of the warband for Rout Checks.

For example, a Sellsword warband's Captain dies. A player chooses one of their Champions to become the Leader as that Champion has high Morale. The player adds the 'Leader' skill to the Champion. They have enough gold to purchase a new 'Captain'. They do so, but that Captain does not have the 'Leader' skill and is not treated as the Leader for the purposes of rules.

In the incredibly unlikely event that you have no heroes left to take up the mantle of leadership, the first one you hire during this post-game phase will become the Leader. If you do not purchase a new hero before your next game, the warband retires.