---
sidebar_position: 6
---
# Spend Gold

There are many ways to spend Gold. This section describes the possible ways to do so, which can be done in any order.

## Buying Units

Similarly to warband creation, you can spend Gold to buy new units from your warband's unit list. As usual, you must adhere to warband unit caps, individual unit type caps, and hero caps, but can otherwise purchase new units. As usual, add new units to your warband sheet when you purchase them. Remember that you can retire units to make room for new ones.

Unlike warband creation, Large units can now be purchased, although this will likely require hoarding Gold over a few games to do so.
## Buying Equipment

Like during warband creation, you can spend Gold to buy equipment from your warband's equipment list, equipping it to units or storing it in the warband's stored equipment.

You can also freely move equipment around, both between units as well as to and from your stored equipment. Obviously, units are still restricted to the equipment they can use based on their specific equipment list and total weapon slots. Rare Items and Consumables are restricted to heroes only.

### Selling Equipment

You can sell equipment, gaining Gold equal to half its value (rounded down). You can also sell Loot. Rare Consumables can be sold for 5g, while Rare Oddments, Armour, or Weapons can be sold for 10g.

## Buying Hero Slots

Players can spend gold to increase their total Hero Slots and enable them to hire Heroes beyond the usual 3. This can be especially useful if the player has gotten unlucky with Henchman Promotion roles and is feeling limited by their Hero Slots. See the following table for the cost required to buy a Hero slot. The costs listed are not cumulative.

| Hero Slot | Cost |
| --------- | ---- |
| 4th       | 50g  |
| 5th       | 100g |
| 6th       | 150g |
## Buying Improvement Attempts

Players can spend 25g to allow a Hero to make an Improvement Attempt. Draw once from the Improvement Deck for that Hero and resolve the card. Each Hero can only attempt to Improve once between each game.

<!--

JP 30-10-25: If we implement the apothecary, it goes here.

-->

